It's going to be a lot of stress on the
market.
>> Investors always hit the sidelines when
you have uncertainty.
>> It's risky not to take risk.
>> The market is being very [music] calm
about this whole situation.
>> There's a lot of other themes that
people are going to have to sort of roll
their sleeves [music] up on. Again,
>> this is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
[music]
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Tuesday in the green for the year,
the S&P 500 wiping out losses since the
start of the war as the White House is
playing up the prospect of further peace
talks and crude is coming off its fourth
straight day, closing below triple
digits. WTI trending close to 96 this
morning.
>> This is a FOMO market right now.
Everyone doesn't want to miss out on
potential gains. As Bank of America
strategist put it this morning, strong
rally suggests that the upside remains
the greater concern. This is in stocks.
The downside is in oil prices. As you
see right now, poly market odds of the
conflict ending this month are [music]
75%. That is the highest level going
back since the start of this conflict.
People are ready to just [music] move
on.
>> The White House playing up talks about
talks. Let's get to the latest reporting
from Bloomberg. The US and Iran in
discussions about holding another round
of face-to-face negotiations for a
longerterm ceasefire. [music]
>> And it could be as soon as this weekend,
according to Reuters. And one individual
speaking to Reuters said no firm date
has been set with the delegations
keeping Friday through Sunday open. So
another weekend where everyone will be
working. But to Lisa's [music] point,
it's not just FOMO. The market is really
starting to price in. Either there's
going to be an off-ramp of peace [music]
and a sessation of hostilities for good
or the United States is winning right
now. That is how the market is looking
at [music] this conflict.
>> I don't think Mark's looking at
anything. This market's moved on. Based
on a price action of the past few weeks,
this market has moved on. bank earnings
[music] later on this morning. We'll
move on. JP Morgan later this hour,
later this morning, Wells Fargo and City
Group. [music]
>> And it's fascinating because yesterday
Goldman Sachs disappointed with one
aspect of their earnings, the fixed
[music] income currencies, commodities
trading. And that sent the shares lower
by almost 4%. That said, all the other
financials were actually up on the day
and the best performing of the day. So
people looked at this and they said,
"This is a Goldman Sachs issue. This is
an expectations issue. This is not a
banking issue." And it's really
something where the bar is still very
high for the other players. Company
story of the morning is not in the
financials. Let's talk about the
airlines. Check it out. American
Airlines and United. Scott Kirby of
United according to our sources here at
Bloomberg approaching American about a
tie up. Just think about that. Sprint
and JetBlue couldn't get it done. And
we're talking about American and United.
>> Well, so antitrust uh regulators might
be more amendable to tie-ups, but
probably not this one. That said, this
is fascinating on a number of levels.
First of all, Scott Kirby, the CEO of
United, used to be the president of
American Airlines. He knows this airline
pretty well. Number two, there is going
to be a period of distress. This is what
a lot of different airline executives
have talked about. If oil prices remain
high, who are the winners [music] going
to be and how much can you ultimately
see some tie-ups uh get explored in this
market? Obviously, the regulatory
environment is more imunable during the
Trump administration. But this kind of
tie-up is just potentially [music] too
big, especially with this administration
ahead of the midterm elections is trying
to talk about affordability. Not only
are they thinking about this said Scott
Kirby approached President Trump
directly at the end of February and he
was there for a meeting talking about
Dulles airport. He said, you know, I
might make a play for American. I'm sure
he pitched it in a way that Trump said,
I love a big deal. Maybe this can
happen, but I'm not sure if the DOJ or
the Department [music] of Transportation
is going to greenlight this.
>> We'll have more on this story later this
hour. American in the pre-market higher
by some 5%. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Brian Levit of Invesco
[music] where stocks are raising the
year's losses. We'll speak to the French
minister for the economy and finance Ron
as Europe faces an energy shock and
Jerro Cassidy of RBC reacting to the
latest big bank earnings JP Morgan later
this hour. We begin this hour with our
top story. The US and Iran weighing
another round of peace talks as the
straight of blockade enters day two
joins us now from Dubai. Jamaa, welcome
back to the program. just how is that
blockade holding up so far this morning?
>> Yeah, well, I I will say, John, actually
it's become a bit of a side story this
morning and so far as the evening was
rather uneventful. So, uh the blockade
went into effect at around 6:00 p.m.
regional time, around 5:00 p.m. in Iran.
Uh and what we saw overnight was an
attempt for from uh several ships to get
through the straits. And there's one
that we've been monitoring throughout
the course of the morning. Uh this is uh
an Iran it is a US sanctioned vessel
that has links to China that has been
making its way through the straight of
Hormos. We understand now that it's
passed through the strait and is on its
way to the Gulf of Oman uh without any
incidents. So you know this is perhaps
the first example of a a vessel or ship
that's trying to make it through the
straits uh under this new naval blockade
introduced by the US. But I should say
it's unclear whether it stopped at any
Iranian port. So not a real test per se,
but I think the real story this morning
is that there have been numerous reports
overnight suggesting that we may be in
for another round of discussions and
these are mediated discussions of course
between US and Iran. Uh Reuters
reporting that it could happen in
Islamabad towards the end of this week.
Remember you have to go back to what
President Trump said over the weekend.
He did actually describe the talks as
having gone well. There are few
outstanding points. He says the nuclear
file is still going to be a focus. And
again uh you know other outlets
reporting overnight New York Times
suggesting that there has this still
ongoing disagreement on the extent of
enrichment that the US are willing to
allow whether it's low enrichment or no
enrichment. The Iranians are are are
saying that they want to uh push for a
5-year timeline on the suspension. The
US want to see a further timeline of 20
years. Whether the two can actually
bridge the gap between them, you know,
is a big question before we go into this
next round of potential discussions yet
to be confirmed by both sides. But I
will say that as far as the ceasefire is
concerned, it is still holding up and
there have been multiple diplomatic
channels being worked over the last 24
hours, uh the Iranian foreign minister
had a call with the Qatar PM. He also
had a call with the Saudi foreign
minister as well. clearly moving in the
d right direction from you know the Iran
Gulf perspective. Uh and then let's not
forget that the c ceasefire in theory
ends uh in a week's time. So if they
want to get something done then it would
probably have to happen in the next
couple of days. Yet to be confirmed
though by both sides.
>> Jamala, good to see you. Good to catch
up as always. Blamanda Bachi leading our
coverage out of the region this morning.
Brent at 98, WTI at 96. To Jamala's
point, the talks are ongoing and so long
as the talks are ongoing and the back
end of the futures curve is behaving,
this market seems to be comfortable with
deploying just a little bit more capital
and adding to the rally we've seen so
far.
>> Yeah, it seems like a rush in frankly
and a lot of people are talking about
how the pain trade is to the upside
because ultimately that's what it's
always been and they want to forget
about this and they're getting a sign
maybe they can start to do that.
>> Here's the view on Wall Street so far
this morning. Brian Levit of Invesco
writing, "If the futures market is
correct and oil prices are around 80 per
barrel in 12 months time, that outcome
would likely not be a deal breaker for
the US economy." Brian joins us now for
more. Brian, good morning.
>> Hey, good morning.
>> You are our FOMO guy. We always
introduce you as [laughter] our FOMO
guy. If you're sitting this out, what
are you missing out on?
>> I think the, you know, I think the
spectre of uh April 9th, 2025 looms
large. I think a lot of investors are
contemplating it where the
administration backed off from its worst
impulses on on tariffs and you had one
of the best updates in the market you've
had in years. And so this whole time
investors have been very cautious about
missing this. And you know, if we were
to have said on February 27th at the
close of the market that this conflict
was going to begin, I don't think most
people would have thought that the worst
you'd see is 10% down in the Dow dollar
barely move. credit spreads barely
moved. Five-year inflation expectations
up a bit, but not a ton. Market's going
to price out, the rate cuts, but without
much incident. So, it's been a market
that obviously has been a little
volatile around events. It's always
volatile around policy uncertainty, but
it's a market that's just wanting to
look past it, at least to this point.
>> We've had a total reset. We've wiped out
the losses since the war started. We're
positive on the year so far. Where are
you comfortable? Just thinking about the
riskreward at the moment given the reset
we've seen, where are you comfortable
being within the equity market?
>> So, I'll take two two questions there.
One, are stocks going to continue to
outperform bonds? We think so. You would
be in a much worse environment with
regards to spreads, inflation
expectations, policy tightening if we
didn't think stocks were going to
outperform bonds. Now, in terms of
market leadership, that's a tough one
because coming into the year, all the
leading indicators globally were in
expansion and that's small cap, that's
emerging markets, that's value. and
they've for obvious reasons have given
you a little bit of a slowdown signal
here because of $4 gallon gasoline. So
that gets you back into mega cap and
quality. So which one is it? That's a
very big challenge over the short term,
right? Because we just don't know the
duration of this. So, I hate to use the
word diversified, but I'd say, you know,
you know, risk back to, you know,
neutral where you want to make sure that
you have some higher quality mega cap in
the portfolio, but also diversified into
things like emerging markets that are
likely to outperform as this improves.
>> So, you're not alone. Uh, Black Rockck
also yesterday, Jean Boan was saying
that he also liked emerging markets with
the assumption that this conflict ended.
It's funny. It feels like taking a
driver's ed class where they tell you
everything that you can go wrong and all
the kids just ignore it because they try
to just get past it. Just get me in the
car. I want to go where I want to go.
You hear Faty B-roll saying that prices
are high but they're not reflecting the
severity of the problem. I agree there
is a disconnect. We will see a
convergence. At what point do you have
to hedge against the chance that this is
not over?
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, what I've been telling
investors is that, you look, we're not
military strategists. Um, the same way
we weren't u molecular biologists in
2020, although we certainly tried to
play them on television. So, I watch
what the market is telling me. And, you
know, look, when this started, people
said, "Well, if this goes on more than a
couple of weeks, we're in trouble."
Well, it's now six weeks. Well, if this
goes on 3 months, we're in trouble.
Right? So, look at what the market is
telling us. And you know to come back to
the same things, you're just not seeing
breaks in the credit market. You're not
seeing the bond market in disarray. So I
wouldn't be thinking about it
necessarily from the duration of it. I
would be thinking about it from what the
market is telling us and the market is
telling us that we're likely to see this
come to a conclusion sooner rather than
later. A number of strategists have said
that the market is also suggesting that
tech needs to really take the leadership
again because that is going to be the
area to John's point earlier that it
will might be most immune to
inflationary pressures that are more
likely frankly at $100 a barrel than
$130 or $140 a barrel. So do you agree
with that type of positioning versus
earlier this year?
>> Yeah, that's what a slowdown would tell
you right now. That's what $4 a gallon
gasoline will tell you. No rate cuts.
Um, so you're back to an environment
where you're looking for growth in
what's likely to be a a slower growth
wall. But that that can change fairly
quickly. If you look at the
backwardation in the oil market and
you're back around $75 a barrel, the
Federal Reserve comes back into play.
Um, you could see back that rotation to
the broader market. So, you know, that's
the a little bit of the frustrating part
of it. And, you know, we said coming
into the year, this is the this is the
broadening market. This is the great
global expansion. I remember talking to
the team on Friday, February 27th, and
said, you know, don't talk to a pitcher
during a no hitter. This is, you know,
this is great. Um, and then we got the
curveball that is the uh Iran war. So,
yeah.
>> Brian, how much of this though is Trump
conditioning for the financial markets?
I was thinking yesterday at the close,
would we be here if it was a different
president? if we had a different
commander-in-chief.
>> That's an excellent point, and he's done
a um a very good job of getting the
markets calmed at certain times and
anticipating a better outcome than what
we might have otherwise feared. So, um
we'll see. I mean, it's it's not clear
that we would have been in this under
all administrations, but it's also, you
know, not clear if um we'd be willing
to, you know, walk away with a
negotiated deal as quickly. So, you have
both sides of that. I think Trump um on
certain days has done a very good job
with the power of the mic, the bully
pulpit, being able to suggest that
something's in the works when it's not
necessarily. There's still that risk of
that, no doubt. Um but I would still
come back to the fundamentals of the
market suggesting um corporate America's
in reasonably good shape. The global
economy is in reasonably good shape.
>> It's kept you anchored and you've been
right to stay constructed throughout all
of this. Brian, it's good to see you as
always. Thank you, sir. Brian Le there
of Invesco. Bremo talked about the Bank
of America fund manager survey. Some
highlights of that. Expectations for
growth down the most since March 2022.
Expectations for inflation the highest
since May 2021. The title of the piece
this morning. Bearish and long.
>> Yeah. Well, I mean this is
>> Doesn't that tell you about how
investors have thought about the last
month? Bearish and long.
>> They don't feel good, but they keep
buying. Kind of like consumers. They
don't feel very good, but they keep on
going out and buying clothes and uh
going out to restaurants. The other
thing is this Bank of America fund
manager survey was taken over a period
when the conflict was probably more
severe number one and number two. It is
a fantastic contrarian indicator. So if
you want to get long, here's your
confidence.
>> Get long bonds as well. Check out this
headline that crossed the Blimbo
terminal just moments ago. The UK
receiving a record 148 billion pound of
investor bids for a 10-year debt sale.
That 10-year yield moved almost 70 basis
points through the month of March and
got to the highest level since 2008. And
a buy come in. You saw a similar move in
Japan just yesterday. 20-year debt sale,
the strongest demand since 2019. So,
yields have backed up. Bob Michael of JP
Morgan talked about it multiple times
over the last month. Investors were
ready to step in. They're stepping in.
>> I thought that the Japanese bond sale
was really notable given the fact that
you saw the greatest amount of demand
versus the supply being sold since 2019.
These yields are attractive to people.
People want income and they're getting
it and I think the UK really highlights
that.
>> The latest headlines on the bond market
for you this morning. Let's get you some
top stories elsewhere with your
Bloomberg brief. Yahihara is back with
us for more. Hey, Yahihara.
>> Good morning, John. The US and Iran are
considering a second round of talks
before their twoe ceasefire [music] ends
next week. The New York Times reporting
that during the talks over the weekend,
[music] the US proposed a 20-year
suspension of all nuclear activity while
Iran renewed a suggestion for a halt of
up to 5 years. The Chinese president
making his first remarks on the Iran
war. Xiinping describing [music] the
international order as crumbling into
disarray and vowing to play a
constructive role in the Middle East.
And United Airlines CEO Scott Kirby is
considering a merger with rival American
airlines. Sourc is telling us [music]
here at Bloomberg, Kirby has pitched the
idea to senior government officials a
merger would create the [music] largest
airline in the world. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yahara, thank you. Thanks for the
update. More from Yhara later this hour.
Up next on a program, working towards
[music] a deal.
>> We've been called this morning by the
right people, the appropriate people,
and they want to work a deal. There's no
fighting right now. We have a blockade.
So now they're doing Iran is doing
absolutely no business.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with the former
deputy national security adviser,
Victoria Coats, live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
Busy morning. Bank earnings coming up.
Later this hour, we'll hear from JP
Morgan. Then in the next hour, you'll
hear from Wells Fargo. Following that,
we'll hear from Cityroup. Three big
names reporting throughout this morning.
Tomorrow, Bank of [music] America and
Morgan Stanley. In the equity market,
your scores are shaping up as follows.
Equity futures pushing higher up by 210
of 1% on the [music] S&P 500 and Savas
this morning working towards a deal.
>> We've been called this morning by the
right people, the appropriate people,
and they want to work a deal. They would
like to work a deal. There's no fighting
right now. We have a blockade. Uh
they're doing no business. I didn't like
seeing boats come out if they were doing
business with Iran, but if they weren't,
no boats came out. So now they're doing
Iran is doing absolutely no business and
we're going to keep it that way very
easily.
>> So here's [music] the latest this
morning. The US and Iran wag another
round of peace talks before the twoe
ceasefire expires next week as the US
blockade of the straight of former
enters day two. Bm's Tyler Kendall has
the latest and joins us with more. Good
morning Tyler.
>> Hey John, good morning. And while
diplomacy is still very much on the
table, as people familiar with the
matter tell us that the goal is to hold
another round of face-to-face
negotiations ahead of next week's
ceasefire deadline because President
Trump went on in those remarks to say
that the timetable in Iran has not
changed. Now, the White House maintains
that this weekend's past negotiations
did not yield results because of Iran's
nuclear ambitions, though senior
administration officials have repeatedly
said they think that that is an issue
that can be breached. And that comes on
the heels of multiple reports yesterday
that the US had proposed that Iran
accept a 20-year moratorum on its
uranium enrichment during the talks in
Pakistan. That would mark a shift from
previous US demands regarding a
potential permanent ban on the program.
And the New York Times had a little more
detailed reporting, saying that Iran had
proposed a 5-year suspension. That's
giving us a little bit of insight into
how the dialogue went this weekend. And
even with the prospect of further
dialogue to come, of course, there is
still that risk of escalation on the
table. President Trump yesterday
threatened to eliminate any Iranian
attack boats that come near the US
blockade. And new overnight, Saudi
Arabia is urging the US to end the
blockade altogether amid concerns that
regional ports could be threatened. Now,
John, President Trump also said
yesterday that today we may get further
details on which countries have reached
out to the US to help with the blockade,
but he didn't provide any further
information other than that.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest. Tyler,
we'll catch up with you in the next
hour. Let's build on this conversation
with the former deputy national security
advisor Victoria Coat writes the
following. Closing the straight will
remove Iran's last economic lifeline and
they are not going to be able to
tolerate that for very long. Victoria
joins us now for more. Victoria, welcome
back. The Iranian government is very,
very good at stretching out
negotiations. Extend and pretend, extend
and pretend. Is there any reason to
believe they're willing to give up or
will be willing to give up their nuclear
ambitions?
>> Well, good morning, John. Good to be
with you. That's the big question here.
And yes, uh, as President Trump
frequently says, Iran has never won a
war and they've never lost in a a
negotiation. So, you do always have to
watch that. Their long game, what they'd
like to do is stretch this out for a
couple of years, at least through
November of this year. Their hope is
that the Republicans will lose the
midterms, the administration will be
distracted by a hostile Congress, and
then eventually a Democrat will get
elected in in 2028, and that will be,
you know, sort of their lifeline. But I
don't think they can survive this
blockade. Their internet has been
essentially shut down for 1,800 hours.
Their stock market's been closed since
early March. Their commodities markets
been closed from around the same time
frame. So if you shut off their ability
to export oil on top of all that, you're
facing a really, really dire economic
situation inside Iran that I don't think
is fully understood at this point.
>> When it comes to the blockade, why is
the US willing to have the blockade on
Iran but three weeks ago lift sanctions
on their crude that was at sea?
Well, I think this is a real shift of of
approach and I the idea is to break
break the paradigm, break this historic
uh leverage over the street of Hormoons
that Iran has exploited at various times
to essentially hold the global uh energy
market hostage and that we can't go on
this way that this regime is intolerably
hostile to not just the United States
but to all of its uh neighbors in the in
the region. And so if we can sort of
turn this around on them and make this
more painful for them than it is for for
our partners and allies, you know,
eventually we we can break that. And the
other thing I' I'd quickly point out is
that we see a race toward alternative
infrastructure in the region. Not just
the Saudi petrol line, the East West
line that's running now about 7 million
barrels a day. UAE has a group of
pipelines. They're looking at ports in
Oman down below the street that could be
serviced by these pipelines. I think
that Iran really has an asset of
diminishing value here in the straight
of Hormutes.
>> I'm glad you brought up that pipeline
because the Wall Street Journal
overnight was saying how Saudi Arabia is
pressing the United States to drop the
blockade because they're concerned that
Iran will go after their ports
elsewhere, maybe get the Houthis
involved when it comes to Babel Mandeb
and then hurt all those exports that are
moving through the East West pipeline.
Do you potentially think that the
Iranians are willing to go there? Well,
this has always been a concern, but the
I I found it very interesting. I mean,
we're now in I guess close to week six
of this conflict, and the Houthi have
literally done nothing. They could have
uh started taking pot shots at shipping
through the Red Sea at any point. I
think they've launched one missile at
Israel and it was intercepted. So,
you've really had an extremely muted
response from the Hooi uh who may be
rethinking their life choices as
partners of the Iranians given what's
happened to Iran over this this period.
Uh so, they remain a concern. You've got
to keep an eye on them, but but they
really haven't done very much as of now.
I find that very interesting.
>> There also was a question of what China
is doing through all of this. Uh there
were reports about Xiinping talking
about the how the international order is
crumbling into disarray. There has been
reporting that China is providing
certain weaponry to Iran. How difficult
does it make the meeting between
Xiinping and Donald Trump in the middle
of May? Well, it it it certainly ups the
ante as it were on that on that summit
coming up in May. And I I found the
timing of that quite interesting as
well. The you know, China was asked very
early in this conflict if they were
going to cancel that meeting given that
they're supposed to be such good friends
with the Iranians and they said, "No, we
would like to see Mr. Trump. Uh maybe
that is not entirely surprising. You
know, the president postponed it a
month, but he's going to go. And I
thought uh chairman Xi's remarks at the
visit of the uh Amiradi crown prince
itself also uh a telling development
that he wanted to host that high high
level Amiradi delegation at a moment
when the Emirates are engaged against
the Iranians. Um you know, he said, "Oh,
the rule of law is so very important.
You can't descend to the law of the
jungle." Well, that's fine and well, and
maybe he should respect that uh himself
as he's starting to take looks at at
things like Taiwan. So, I think, you
know, China has been really muted. They
really don't have the capability to
project power the way the United States
has both in the Caribbean and in in in
the Gulf. Uh and so I think that we will
have high stakes for the meeting next
month. But I think President Trump does
hold a lot of cards.
>> Victoria, it's good to see you to get
your thoughts on an update. No doubt
we'll catch up with you again soon.
Victoria coach there, the former deputy
national security adviser on the
situation between the US and the rest of
the world right now. In just a moment,
we'll catch up with the French
government. We need to talk about the
relationship between the US and the
Europeans, the transatlantic divide
that's opened up over the last 6 weeks.
>> Yeah, Xiinping was speaking in a meeting
with the Spanish prime minister. So, uh,
one of the European contingencies that
has made themselves even closer to China
arguably than the US. And with respect
to France, how willing are they going to
be to join the effort? How many
contingency plans do they have to really
support their economy as oil prices take
a huge hit out of GDP? And
>> this comes at a time when Emanuel Mron
is saying he's [music] going to have
this conference about reopening the
street of Hermoose. But we haven't yet
seen material impact of the Europeans
[music] in the region.
>> We'll talk about objectives for that
conference in just a moment. Coming up,
we'll catch up with the French finance
minister Roners with Europe [music]
under pressure from the war. Plus,
Shihara has your morning movers. Check
it out. United CEO pitching a massive
airline merger. The latest report on
that in just a moment. Live from New
York City, you're watching Bloomberg TV.
The stocks advancing [music] in
yesterday's session, wiping out the
losses since this war started on the S&P
500. On the Nasdaq, nine [music]
consecutive days of gains on the NASDAQ
100 this morning. Positive once again,
up by 4/10en of 1%. We've got a morning
full of bank earnings for you. JP Morgan
about 15 minutes away. Moments [music]
ago, numbers from Wells Fargo with the
latest. Danny Burgerer has more. Hey,
Danny.
>> Hey, John. It looks like a miss across
the board. Let's start with the big
number of net interest income. [music]
That comes in at 12.1 billion. That is a
slight miss. The expectation was for
just under 12.3 billion. The hope was it
would be a Wells Fargo at least with
their outlook aided by a lack of Fed
rate cuts. But again, net interest
income coming in with a miss. Other
thing we were looking from from this
bank was following US regulators asset
cap removal last year. Can they sustain
momentum and add to some of their
business? It seems that instead we have
a miss on both investment banking and
total average loans. First quarter
investment banking fees come in at $796
million. The estimate was for far
greater than that $835 million. Total
average loans that comes in uh again
that's slightly higher 996. So that is
the bright spot for total average loans.
Another sore spot for them is expenses.
This is something Wells Fargo had missed
big on last quarter and said, "Our
expenses are coming down. We're having
fewer severance costs. Instead, a slight
higher amount for expenses coming in at
$14.3 billion." The estimate was for
14.23 billion. The other thing we're
looking out for is any drop in credit
quality. their provisions for credit
losses. That is also slightly higher
than expected coming in at $1.14
billion. Again, that is only slightly
higher. Uh $1.13 billion is what we are
expecting. The CEO though putting in the
statement that credit performance
remains strong despite those higher
thanex expected um uh numbers when it
comes to credit provisions. Their
headcount is down. But John, expenses
are higher and a miss on net interest
income and a miss on some of the growth
engines that should have been there for
Wells Fargo, like investment banking,
>> driving the stock lower in the
pre-market. Danny, thank you. Stay
close. We'll get to JP Morgan later on
this hour with Danny Burger. That stock
is down in the pre-market by 2.6%. The
way things are stacking up this morning.
Wells Fargo first. JP Morgan at about 15
minutes time and then we'll hear from
Cityroup Bremo somewhere around the 8:00
hour.
>> Yeah. And a lot of uh what will
determine the reaction in markets is how
high the expectation is. Just to sort of
give a frame of reference, Wells Fargo
shares were lower by more than 6%
heading into this so far this year. So
already taking some of the heat out of
that. JP Morgan's going to really be the
biggie to understand whether they can
capitalize on the capital markets uh
boom that we've seen so far this year.
>> A slight miss on Wells Fargo. Some major
news coming out of the airlines sector
we need to stay on top of as well. Let's
get to your morning movers. Yhara has
more. Hey Yahara.
>> Hi John. Exactly. One of the biggest
ever airline deals could be on the
table. We're reporting that United CEO
Scott Kirby has floated uh the idea of a
merger with American Airlines to senior
government officials. So you are seeing
shares of American up 5 and a4%. [music]
Uh United also up on that uh news. Uh we
are also seeing shares of the satellite
firm Global Star soaring [music] in the
pre-market up 13.7%.
Also on some potential M&A news on our
reporting that Amazon is close to
[music] buying the company as it tries
to compete with SpaceX and its massive
Starlink network. We are also seeing
shares of Bloom Energy soaring up 13.5%
after expanding its partnership with
Oracle in a deal that could deliver
[music]
2.8 gawatt of power to Oracle's massive
AI data center network. [music] John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
Still thinking about that American
United tie up. What's Kirby up to here?
Is he anchoring us to the extreme so we
can go after something else a little
smaller? Where's this going?
>> Well, he wants to get assets. He
actually was speaking to us earlier this
year and he was talking about how any
kind of downturn, he is ready to pick
stuff up and does that mean entire
airlines? Well, we shall see. I'm not
going to talk about it. But this really
is a question of what can get done given
all the attempts in the recent past.
>> The latest on United Airlines and
American JP [music] Morgan numbers I
believe just crossing as well. Bremo,
they're coming a little bit earlier than
expected. [music] Let's get into some of
that. We just heard from Wells Fargo.
Slight miss there on Wales. Heard from
Goldman driven lower yesterday driven by
a miss on FIC. The numbers elsewhere
pretty decent. What are you seeing on JP
Morgan
>> right now? A beat pretty much across the
board. Uh fixed sales and trading, let's
start with that given the fact that
Goldman Sachs missed. It came in at 71
billion. The estimate was for $6.65
billion. Equity sales and trading
revenue came in at 4.48 billion versus
the estimate of 4.3 billion. You could
see pretty much across the board talking
about how performance was strong,
talking about beating estimates on
earnings per share as well as revenue.
So, a real question here about what they
could accomplish that Wells Fargo
couldn't uh when we just saw those
results.
>> Equity sales and trading to Bremo's
point, upside surprise, decent upside
surprise from Goldman. The miss was on
Fick. There is no miss on FIC when it
comes to JP Morgan. Some commentary from
the JP Morgan CEO Jamie Diamond as well.
We'll get to those comments in just a
moment. Danny Burgerer has some details
for you right now. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. I am looking at record
quarters for equity trading and again
this is important considering Goldman
had a huge quarter too. Can JP Morgan
beat it? They did not beat Goldman but
again at $4.5 billion just there under.
It is a record and again that Fick
number even more important considering
that Goldman Sachs lost that also looks
to be something of a record for them.
The last record was $5.8 8 billion and
this exceeds their estimates at $7
billion. The other really important
thing for JP Morgan was the fact that
they missed on their investment banking
in the last quarter's results. They said
it's because the pipeline has been
delayed. So, you should see that show up
and it has indeed showed up. Investment
banking revenue 3.1 billion. The
estimate was for $2.7 billion. It's a
standout for them. We'll see what how
the advisory numbers come in. But we're
also getting some commentary from Jamie
Diamond as well, saying that he hopes
regulators prioritized well-designed
regulation. Keep in mind, that's part of
the reason why we're seeing their
investment banking outperform, saying
that the US economy remain resilient in
the quarter and several tailwinds are
supporting this resiliency. Contrast
that with what we heard from David
Solomon warning about concerns of
economic and wider stress coming from
geopolitics. Instead, we have a CEO of
JP Morgan saying that there are
tailwinds supporting this uh economy.
And we're also looking to see any
commentary on credit. Jamie Diamond
saying that they have ample amounts of
capital and liquidity and that consumers
are still earning and [snorts] still
spending. So again, a beat across the
board for JP Morgan, a record for their
equity trading, a record for their fick
trading. And you have an investment bank
after a blockbuster quarter from M&A
that also beats something we wanted to
see from JP Morgan considering they
missed last quarter.
>> Danny, thank you. Finding ourselves
saying beat quite a few times whilst
looking at JP Morgan Fick equities
investment banking. The commentary is
important from the JP Morgan boss. The
CEO and chair Jamie Diamond at a time
when we've just seen a massive energy
shock. The economy is still resilient.
There's tailwind supporting this
economy. Consumers still earning, still
spending. And right now they have ample
liquidity and they see credit quality as
hanging in there. All of this with the
beats in the capital markets. Key
question has been and it will be on the
call. How much is the backlog
potentially going to get shrunk as
ongoing uncertainty continues in the
Middle East. The markets may be moving
on but regulators and policy makers
certainly can't do that.
>> This is an important headline from JP
Morgan just to wrap things up here. They
see fullear net interest income of about
103 billion. They had seen about 104.5.
That number just crossed in seconds ago.
>> Yeah. So, a little bit lower than what
they had previously uh been seeing.
Still, nonetheless, $103 billion is
nothing to sneeze at and still would be,
I believe, a new record. So, it's not as
if uh people are going to be crying
about that. Nonetheless, how much are
banks going to try to guide
conservatively given the fact and I
guess that that's conservative more
conservatively based on some of the
uncertainties.
>> There are many tailwinds here for this
economy. The JP Morgan bus cites a few
of them. Fiscal stimulus, AIdriven
capital investment. There is a key
headwind we need to talk about as well,
which is why we're even having this
conversation, which is the shock in the
Middle East and what can be done about
it. We understand this morning,
according to headlines, that France and
the UK is co-hosting a summit this
weekend to discuss safeguarding
international shipping. I'm very pleased
to say we can have that conversation
right now around this table because
joining us is Roland, the French
Minister for the Economy and Finance.
Minister, good morning. It's good to see
you.
>> Good morning.
>> Thank you for being here. Welcome to New
York City. Let's talk about the
objectives for this meeting. What can we
hope for over the next week?
>> Well, we can hope for deescalation. I
mean, you know that France wasn't part
of the conflict as we're not a
belligerent. We're not even warned that
it was going to happen. But now we are
where we are and we feel with others,
the UK and others, we can be part of the
solution. We need the escalation first.
We need those talks that are happening
and which hopefully will keep on
happening between Iran and the US to,
you know, move towards some kind of
solution. But if we do have
deescalation, we feel that a coalition
of the willing countries from all over
the place that have a part in the
problem because as you know this, you
know, straight of story is affecting us
all economically in Asia dramatically
and in Europe as well that we can help
pacify the strait. That strait is the
knot of the economic impact of that
conflict. If we can undo that knot, we
know that we'd all be in a better place.
So whatever we can do once there's the
escalation that's important to help make
the straight of our moves more freed we
will do and that's what's happening on
Friday.
>> What does that actually mean in reality?
Whatever we can do does that mean you'd
have a military presence in the straight
for what does that actually mean?
>> Well look at what's happening in the Red
Sea and it has happened for a while. You
know, there was hoodies there that were
making passage dangerous for ships. And
we have we had and we still have
coalition of partners that are just
making it safe, just preventing
deterring attacks from the hoodies and
you know, we are in there, the Spanish
there, there's a few countries in there.
Obviously the straight of moose would be
probably a bigger deal to do but we can
do it provided again that we have the
escalation we have some path to a
lasting ceasefire that will require
major headway on you know on nuclear on
ballistic capabilities of Iran that have
to be gone but once we have that there's
a case for non-belligerent country to be
part of the solution to pacify the
threat which again is the knot of the
economic impact
>> we have to talk about consequences as
well I'm not sure how well understood
the energy mix story is in France. At
the European level, it's been a bit of a
mess in places like Germany,
particularly the UK. That's been
highlighted so many times. Can you
briefly describe the energy mix in
France, how different it is and how
insulated you might be?
>> You know, I remember Ram Emanuel when
Barack Obama came into office that said
you should never let a good economic
crisis go to waste. Well, this is what
France did in the 70s when we had an oil
shock. and France decided to embark on a
major nuclear program that allowed us to
go down from 90% hydrocarbon in our
energy mix to 60. So 40% of our energy
now is coming from nuclear. It's
carbon-f free. It's cheap and it's
completely sovereign. It doesn't depend
on anyone else. And because we don't
want this economic crisis go to waste,
we've just announced that we're doubling
down. So we're going to bring that
energy mix from 90 to 60 to 35 by
investing again in nuclear as well as
hydro as well as renewables. At the end
of the day, we have a convergence now of
three major driving forces that we have
an interest in investing geopolitical
issues. We have to be sovereign. We have
to be more independent of what's
happening elsewhere.
the environment. You know, I think
climate is coming back because it's been
on a bit of a back burner for a while,
but because we see we're depending way
too much of one region of the Gulf and
of hydrocarbon, it's coming back, but
also jobs. By doing this, we're going to
create hundreds of thousands of jobs
because building a nuclear power
station, you know, building wind farms
and solar farms are helpful for the jobs
on the ground. This is all uh expensive
and it takes money at a time where the
amount of debt globally has reached
record highs, has surged dramatically
since the pandemic. How much fiscal
headroom do you have?
>> Well, it's it's all going to be about
priorities. You know, we can't have it
all. And today we have one priority,
which is sovereignty, which has two
pillars. Defense sovereignty. We will
have doubled defense spending in France
between 2017 and 2027 by the time we get
there next year. and energy sovereignty.
So that means we have to save elsewhere.
You know, we have to save on our health
spending. We have to save on our
retirement spending. And you know, it's
a big debate in France. We've done so.
We've managed to get a budget through.
And I can tell you it wasn't easy with
>> Congress that uh looks, you know, as I
said to my Italian co colleague, a bit
like an Italian Congress. You know, lots
of different groups having to discuss
and m through. But we did and we're
going to have to do it again. But most
importantly, I think there's a
presidential election taking place next
year and the candidates are going to
have to make that choice. Do they want
priority on sovereignty, defense and
electricity and energy to make France
and at the end of the day Europe a
stronger place or do we still want to be
kind of stuck in in in the past of
things we have to change and reform?
>> Do you expect growth to have to go down
because you're saving in these other
areas to preserve the sovereignty in
respect with respect to energy, with
respect to defense? Well, we we entered
that crisis on quite a strong footing. I
heard Jimmy Diamond saying that the US
economy is resilient. So is the French
economy. It was pretty strong getting
into that crisis. So we will have a
slowdown in the short run. But again,
what we're doing is is investment. At
the moment, when someone wants to put a
data center somewhere not in the US,
they look at France because we have
carbon-f free, ample, and cheap
electricity, and they need that. So at
the end of the day this is investment in
the French economy in the European
economy but it is attracting investments
including from the part of US investors
who want to diversify. We having you
know the magnificent seven looking at
France to invest. We having US banks
looking to invest and we have French and
European companies also looking to
invest. So again short-term resilience
but a bit of a risk long-term we need to
invest in the future. That's the only
way out. Growth is the way out. When you
look at the long term, when will France
finally stop buying Russian fossil
fuels?
>> Well, you know, we're committed to that.
We already committed to stopping gas
import. There's no new contracts. This
has been decided at European level this
year. And any gas import is going to be
stopped by January. So, we are on the
path. The only thing we wanted to do is
to make sure that this was done
respecting international laws. We are a
law-abiding country and the EU is a
law-abiding country. So we did it
respecting some contracts that were
still in the go, respecting European
decisions, the sanctions decision as
well. And this is all taking place the
way it should be, respecting
international law, which Russia doesn't.
>> A final question, an important one.
You've used the word belligerance to
describe others. The US might be in that
group in your mind. You can confirm that
if you want to. The other question and
the other answer you've offered is the
word sovereign. This is important with
regards to the future of a relationship
with the US. just what is the
transatlantic relationship given the way
the discourse has evolved over the last
month?
>> We've been friends for 250 years,
you know, and this is going to go beyond
the ups and downs and there are some of
the somewhat interpersonal relationship
or some somewhat disagreement on on the
short-term way of dealing with such and
such problem. um what gets us together
is much stronger than what divides us.
And I can see it every day when I talk
to US and French and European companies.
We need those companies to keep on
working together to give us the right
example of what we need to do. When we
disagree, I'm going to chair G7 meeting
this week. Sometimes we don't agree on
everything with our finance colleagues.
We address it. We address it in closed
rooms. We are allies and friends. And
this needs to go beyond what's going on
in the ground. We have the solutions to
the problem together and we need to make
sure that everyone understands this.
We're stronger together than divided
despite sometimes the somewhat
short-term disagreement. We need to look
beyond that and make sure we do.
>> Minister, it's good to see you. Thanks
for your time.
>> Thank you.
>> Enjoy New York. Heading back to DC as
well. So enjoy America. Equity futures
right now in the S&P 500 positive by a
tenth of 1%. Lots of bank earnings out
there and stories elsewhere with your
Bloomberg brief. Yahara has more. Hi
Yahara.
>> Hi John. A US sanctioned tanker linked
to China made its way through the street
of Hormuse despite President Donald
Trump's naval blockade. Rich Stari, a
medium-range tanker earlier known as
Fullstar, was blacklisted by Washington
back in 2023 for helping [music] Tyrron
evade energy sanctions. And on those
bank earnings, we are seeing JP Morgan
shares falling 2.6%. [music] the bank
cutting its net interest income forecast
for the full year. Still, JP Morgan
reporting a strong first quarter, fixed
sales and trading revenue rising 21%
[music]
compared to a year ago. Wells Fargo
shares also lower about 8/10en of a
percent. The company reporting [music]
net interest income for the first
quarter that missed estimates. Wells
Fargo still seeing its fullear net
interest income at about $50 billion.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yahara, [music] thank you. Thank you
very much. Up next, bank earnings in
focus.
>> Most of the volatility I think is
positive. I think the companies
understand how to make a dollar when you
have these topsy turby markets. This
uncertainty can pass just like it did
last year. U so I still think there's a
very good road ahead.
>> The numbers from JP Morgan were good.
The guide was a little softer than
expected. Jerro Cassidy of RBC joins us
next.
The quarterly numbers were good. The
guide was soft. JP Morgan down in the
pre-market by 2.6% with the details.
Danny has more. Hey Danny. [music]
>> Hey John. It is that net interest income
guide. The confusing thing and the
details that we will want is the fact
that JP Morgan is actually reverting to
an old guidance. In the quarter prior,
it had told us that for 2026, net
interest income would be $104.5 billion
for the year. In January, it had said it
would be $103 billion. It's gone back to
that forecast. So, there's going to be
some question marks about what's changed
in the outlook for JP Morgan to cause
them to do that. Now, otherwise, it was
a really bright earnings and that's why
you saw originally shares surge higher
before you had this new forecast because
everything beat. It was a record quarter
for equities. FIT came in for a second
best quarter, the best one uh being
during co trading times and that was a
number that Goldman Sachs had missed on
its investment bank also really strong.
Its advisory fees surging 82%
yearover-year. Again, this is a bright
spot for JP Morgan after seeing some of
its deals pipeline pushed into the first
quarter. So, it is that one sour spot.
Now, keep in mind it's not exactly
trading at high valuations coming into
this. JP Morgan and the rest of the big
banks are down on the year, but still
there's some disappointment. It's about
that guidance. And again, to Jaime
Diamond's point, he's pointing out
resiliency in the economy. He does talk
about risks and uncertainties and around
geopolitical stress. Um, but saying that
there are many pillars supporting them,
including AIdriven capital investment.
>> Danny Burker with the latest. Danny's
with us all morning breaking down these
results. City is up next. Jared Cassidy
of RBC spending the morning with us as
well. Jared, welcome into the program.
We used to beat and raise from JP
Morgan, not beat and cut. What's behind
the cut?
>> I think John, what we're seeing is that
there was very strong loan growth both
by JP Morgan and Wells Fargo, but both
of them experienced a slight decline in
the net interest margin. So, there was a
compression in the spreads and I think
that's probably attributing to the lower
guidance on the NI for JP Morgan for the
full calendar year 2026. But as you
pointed out earlier, John, uh, Wells
Fargo held their guide for the net
interest income. So, it's a it's a
question of volume versus spread and the
spread came in a little tighter for both
those banks.
>> Jer, I'm struck by the fact that even
though it's beat pretty much across the
board, the shares are lower. Do you
think that this truly is net income
interest or just simply uh buy the rumor
or sell the news?
>> I think it's the latter. And I think you
bring a good point, a good point. It's a
little surprising that the stock is down
that much on these results. And even the
outlook, the outlook though the net
interest income as you as you guys just
pointed out has been moving around
between 103 to 105 billion. It's it's
not a significant lowering to suggest
why the stock is down. And also as you
guys pointed out the capital markets
numbers for JP Morgan were very robust
this quarter as well. We heard Goldman
Sachs's CEO yesterday blame the analyst
essentially for their miss in fix saying
that they just simply had expectations
that were way too high. It's their
fault. Do you expect similar commentary
from JP Morgan this morning? I I'd be
surprised because I was looking at our
numbers and consensus compared to JP
Morgan's numbers and generally they came
in better than expected including thick.
So it's going to be interesting to see
what others report. city, as you know,
reports later this morning, then we'll
of course receive Bank America and
Morgan Stanley later in the week. And if
everybody beats expectations on FIC,
then Goldman had had a tougher quarter.
They didn't indicate yesterday that
there was any trading losses or anything
which is what we suspected but when
questioned on their call about the
softness there once again it was more
due to the rates uh business and
mortgages being partially offset by
better commodities trading and currency
trading for for Goldman yesterday.
>> Jared, it's good to see you. You're
going to be sticking with us through
this morning. Looking forward to
catching up some more. John Cassidy
there of RBC. I've never enjoyed that.
Blaming the analysts, blaming the media.
Just own the results. Well, it didn't
seem to work.
>> The outcome
>> well it didn't seem to work because
ultimately you saw the shares respond uh
heading lower. A question though here of
how much the optimism must have been
overbaked in some of these booktoloan
values in some of the banks and that I
think is maybe what we might see in some
of the uh post results trading
>> JP Morgan down by close to 2% in the
pre-market. Just not what we're used to
Bremo. Usually when you see beats like
that on a quarter from JP Morgan, the
headline that leaks a couple of minutes
later across the Bloomberg terminal and
you see it cross. It's the guidance for
net interest income and usually it's
higher than it was before
>> and $ 103 billion isn't nothing but
[music] yes the idea of guiding lower is
something unusual.
>> Stock is down by close to 2% in early
trading. The conversation continues in
the next hour. We'll catch up with Eric
Johnson of cancer, Rachel Zambber of
CNAs, Amy Gar of Morgan Stanley, son
Desai of Franklin Templeton. The second
hour of Bloomberg surveillance is just
around the corner.
Inflation is now too high. We live in a
world of higher, more volatile
inflation.
>> There's still a number of unknowns.
>> Uncertainty breeds conservatism in terms
of spending and hiring. There's damage
that's going to persist.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
Anarie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Blindberg surveillance stats right now,
and your price action scores look like
this. [music] Equity futures firmer by
about a tenth of 1% on the S&P. On the
NASDAQ up by a third, the Nasdaq [music]
9day winning streak. The S&P within 2%
of alltime highs in the commodity
market. First thing you look at still
most mornings crude Bren WTI below
triple digits. 99 on Bren WTI at 97
holding us back just a touch [music]
today. These numbers from JP Morgan
quarterly results were good. The guide
was a little soft. The [music] stock is
down by more than 1%. Yeah, the guide a
little soft and bringing us back to
where we were in terms of the guide from
January. $103 billion versus $104.5
[music]
billion. Still massive numbers and beats
pretty much across the board. You got
fick outperforming. You had equities
trading and sales outperforming. You had
net interest income uh for the quarter
outperforming. The commentary from Jamie
Diamond of JP Morgan interesting saying
that ultimately this is a difficult
moment. There are fiscal stimulus and
AIdriven capital investments that act as
tailwinds. At the same time, the
headwinds of energy costs and
geopolitical conflicts still loom large.
>> The economy is resilient. We've heard
that from [music] Jamie Diamond and JP
Morgan a few times. Consumers are still
earning. They're still spending. The
risks, they're complex. [music] They
include wars and energy prices.
>> And what we see depending on these
results and what the CE CEOs [music] are
saying is very different than what you
see in the polls. In the polls, you see
everyday consumers are concerned about
where gas prices are north of $4 [music]
a gallon when it comes across the
average for the United States. At the
same time, they are still going out and
spending, which is why you have
executives saying, [music] "We do see
this consumer to be resilient. They
might not be happy about it, but they're
still spending."
>> Things have been pretty mixed so far. JP
Morgan, Goldman Sachs, we've heard from
W City the next [music] to go. Then
we'll hear from Bank of America and
Morgan Stanley in the next 24 hours.
>> One of the difficult aspects of this is
they are potentially preparing for
difficulties down the line. Not seeing
it yet. You're also not hearing concerns
about [music] private credit or any kind
of serious credit deterioration that is
at least making itself manifest on the
balance sheet. So, how does an investor
deal with [music] this when the unknowns
are still a complete black box? The uh
the the the the [music] crystal ball
that people look at is completely
cloudy. So, how is an investor do you
game this out? I would say look past it.
It's a FOMO market and it's [music] very
difficult when you really do understand
what is going to happen in the Middle
East. were supposed to have the end of
this ceasefire, potentially talks just
before then. What's on the table right
now is what's been on [music] the table
was on the table in February before
Trump decided to escalate and start
striking Iran. So, this could, as
Victoria Coat said, this could drag on
for months, especially given the
Iranians are very aware that there's a
midterm election in this country,
[music] then the president after that
only has two more years. We have thrown
so much of this equity market, private
market jitters, AI disruption, a major,
and I mean major energy shock, [music]
and we are within 1.5% of alltime highs
on the S&P [music] 500. Futures this
morning positive by a tenth of 1%.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Eric Johnson of Caner as big bank
earnings roll in. Rachel Zamber of the
Center for a New American Security on
hopes for a US Iran deal, and Solid
Design of Franklin Templeton as the Fed
weighs its next move. We begin this hour
with stocks looking for direction
following JP Morgan's first quarter
earnings. Eric Johnson of Canford Sheld
writing the US economy and corporate
earnings are quite strong and can handle
a short-term spike in oil and short-term
supply shocks across different inputs.
Eric joins us now for more. Eric, good
morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning.
>> Just to add to that, I've talked about
what we've thrown at this equity market.
Private market jitters, AI disruption,
an energy shock, and to your point, the
negative supply shocks elsewhere as well
across labor and goods. And here we are
very close to all-time highs. What's
anchoring that for you?
>> So I would say a couple things. Even
though price is only down, call it 1.5%
from the all-time high. As you said, if
you look at the multiple, that's down
very significantly. So the peak was
about 22.8 times forward earnings. We
entered this year at a little over 22
times forward earnings and now we're
just above 20. And that's because
earnings estimates have, you know, over
the last 6 months and over the last, you
know, two to three months have surged.
So by going sideways um the market has
actually been correcting um the
multiple. So if you look at a multiple
chart and you said that was a stock
price chart you would say wow we're
we're still very oversold. So I think
that has created that sort of um you
know entry point making it look
attractive even being 1.5% you know from
the highs.
>> How sticky do you think that multiple
compression is?
>> So I think that 22.8 probably was not
correct and was was too high. But the
earnings growth rate right now and most
of it is really it's due to AI, right?
It's due to the buildout. But you're
seeing a growth rate that's likely going
to persist in this mid teens range. And
if you look at it versus versus history,
you know, you've got mid- teens growth.
You've had debt debt levels that, you
know, looking back over the last 50 to
75 years, corporate debt is very low.
Capex of course has gone up of late but
also relative to history is also on the
lower end. So a 20 multiple while I
still think is on the higher end I think
is something that could be sustained and
potentially uh move a little bit higher
from here as the year goes on.
>> Does that mean that you think that big
tech has to lead on any kind of rally
any kind of upside given the diminished
expectations for growth due to the
conflict in the Middle East?
>> Absolutely. I think they I think this
earning season is going to be a very
positive earning season for mega cap
tech relative to their stock prices. And
so, you know, Mega Cap Tech has gotten
hit hard. The multiples have come hit
gotten hit hard. And a lot of this
earnings uh estimate revision higher has
actually been from tech while the stocks
have been getting hit. So, I think as
you look to this earnings season, I
think you're going to see, you know,
growth rates in cloud that are going to
be very attractive. I think the
commentary about the outlook for that
growth rate over the coming years is
also going to be quite favorable. So
yes, I think you need Mike mega cap tech
and I think you'll I think you'll get
it.
>> John's been talking about this for quite
a while. How much room do they have to
keep increasing their capex spending
given the fact that there are some
concerns by investors of exactly what
kind of return they're getting and
frankly the fact they're becoming more
asset heavy in terms of their overall
model. I mean, there's still a very
large mismatch between the demand for
compute and the supply. And there's
likely going to be continued issues in
terms of just building it, like actually
just being able to physically um get all
the pieces to build the data centers to
meet the demand. And so that's probably
going to elongate
the cycle. Um and so I think that in the
near term, I don't really see any change
to that capex outlook. There's also been
concern for some individuals, especially
on the Federal Reserve, that maybe they
can't do anything. They have to sit on
their hands because of what is going on
given the inflationary shock of the
energy story, but you actually think the
Fed is going to cut this year. You still
think that?
>> I do. So, the market's only pricing in a
40% chance of one cut. Um, I think we're
going to see multiple cuts and I think
it's really with, you know, I think core
inflation. So presumably the end of the
war um will will be there sometime in
the next you know coming weeks and
months. And so as we get to the back
half of the year, I think that the
headline inflation numbers are going to
be looked at by the Fed as old news and
they will have already seen the starting
of the move lower in oil and I think
it's going to go a lot slower than
people, you know, hope for, but is on
the on the move down and that core
inflation is going to really be what is
going to be moving lower and will be the
rationale for the Fed to the Fed to cut.
And I think that this AI um you know
surge in you know you look at anthropics
revenues right there's likely going to
be start to be headwinds or continue to
be headwinds for the labor market and I
think that's going to be for years to
come
>> and you think we'll see that this year
AI impact basically layoffs.
>> I think some of that impact in the back
half of the year but we're also going to
be lapping tariffs which I think is
going to be I think is going to be very
important for goods prices. I think the
owner's equivalent rent is just on a
downtrend and based on the current data
should be on a downtrend for the next
year plus. Um and then I think wage
growth um is certainly going to be under
pressure uh due to that AI dynamic. So I
think if you put that all together,
we'll be looking at you know core
inflation rates in the back half of the
year that are you know going to be
enough for the Fed to cut. And of
course, you're going to have a head of
head of the uh you know of of the
committee that is going to be quite
incentivized to cut. He's only one vote,
but um is going to be quite incentivized
to cut. And I think that could have uh
significant [snorts] influence on
>> Just extend that a few steps further.
You've got AI disruption leading to
layoffs in the labor market and the Fed
chasing something they can't affect.
Cutting interest rates for a jobs market
they can't change.
>> Mhm.
>> Right. you
>> how far are they going to chase that
because arguably them cutting interest
rates would just accelerate further AI
investment. No.
>> So historically it's been the Fed has
been much more sort of backwardlooking
and I think one of the changes that you
know they want to make is becoming much
more you know forwardlooking and I think
with with Wars in there um you know
leading I think he's going to be much
more forward-looking. Now what is the
impact going to be? um that's where it
gets very, you know, murky and likely
the impact is not necessarily going to
be there, but ultimately the goal is
going to be to spur um you know, demand
demand beyond what it would be
otherwise.
>> That's going to be a tricky uh
>> I'm struck by the fact that it feels
like this market saying mission
accomplished. I feel like this market is
collectively on some sort of aircraft
carrier with a huge banner saying
mission accomplished. We're moving on.
And at the same time, oil prices are
going to be materially higher. just to
wonder at what point higher inflation
starts to uh really bleed into the
calculus in a more sustained way.
>> So one of the interesting things if you
look at a chart of oil prices over the
last you know 15 20 years oil prices
today are the same as they were in 2008.
Okay that was during the spike in '08 to
be fair but the same as 2008.
Wealth since 20 2008 has gone up by
about sixfold like 600%. And so the
impact while oil clearly has an impact
on a certain segment of the consumer and
a painful impact on that segment of the
consumer. If you look at the consumer
broadly um you know consumer spending is
not really being impacted because um
because of this wealth creation that
makes oil prices on a relative basis
such a such a small part of the
consumer's um spending. And even though,
you know, we've seen a surge in oil
prices and of course rate of change is
super important, but we're also the same
price. If you look at six-month oil,
it's the same as it was in 2024, same as
it was in 2023, below where it was in
2022. So, I think as long as we are here
around oil prices, um the economy and
earnings can definitely handle it. Now
to your point, you know, the market, I
think, is saying that we are pricing in
a very high probability that it is
mission accomplished and that we're not
going to see a further move higher in
oil. And I think in war, you can assume
nothing. And so that is something until
we have a deal, it still remains a risk
even though, you know, I think the odds
have certainly gone down that this is
going to be extended and that the
ceasefire will be broken. I think that
those odds have are definitely moving
lower, but they still they still exist
and you can assume nothing.
>> This stock market has taken a lot of
comfort from the futures curve in the
oil market. Eric, it's good to see you.
Great to see you.
>> Thanks for breaking it down. Thank you.
Eric Johnson there of Caner Fitzgerald
within 1.5% of alltime highs on the S&P
500. Equity futures this morning
positive again by about 0.1% with an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Yhira has more. Hey
yhara.
>> Hi John. Starting with bank earning
shares of JP Morgan and Wells Fargo both
lower in the pre-market. JP Morgan
[music] cutting its net interest income
forecast for the full year with CEO
Jamie Diamond seeing quote an
increasingly complex set of risks ahead.
Wells Fargo posting net [music] interest
income that missed estimates.
Meanwhile, we are seeing shares of
CarMax plunging uh 6.7% in the
pre-market. a used car retailer
reporting fourth quarter results that
beat Wall Street estimates, but said it
will spend $500 million in fiscal 2027
to support longerterm [music] growth.
And California Congressman Eric
Swallwell is resigning from his seat
[music] after suspending his campaign
for governor. Swallwell is facing
allegations of sexual assault by a
former staffer with the House Ethics
Committee [music] set to launch an
investigation. Texas Congressman Tony
Gonzalez is also resigning after
admitting to an affair with a former
staffer. That's your brief. John
>> Yhira, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Yahara in about 15 minutes
time. Up next on the program, [music]
putting the ball back in Iran's court.
The Iranians, I think, did make some
progress. They moved in our direction,
which is why I think [music] we we we
would say that we had some good signs,
but they didn't move far enough. The
ball really is [music] in their court.
Up next, we'll catch up with Rachel
Zamper of the Center for a New American
Security, live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
Stocks higher for eight days out of the
last nine. Up again this morning.
Futures positive [music] by 210 of 1% on
the S&P on the NASDAQ up by 0.4. The
enthusiasm continues on the prospect of
further talks in the Middle East. And
the [music] earnings keep rolling in as
well. This from JP Morgan. Trading
revenue up 20% from a year earlier. This
stat from Hannah Levit here at
Bloomberg. Traders at JP Morgan posting
their highest ever quarterly [music]
revenue in the first 3 months of the
year. The stock is slightly lower. We're
down by close to 9/10 of 1%. The guide
net interest [music] income for the year
ahead. Just slightly softer than what
they were guiding towards just before.
>> Yeah, there was this feeling back in
February a long time ago when everyone
expected the expansion [music] to
surprise to the upside of the United
States. And so any enthusiasm that was
baked in during that period had to be
retrenched [music]
a bit back to where it was earlier this
year still $103 billion of net interest
net income not a terrible haul.
>> JP Morgan down by.9% in the pre-market.
Up next is City at some point in the
next [music] hour. And Savanis this
morning putting the bull back in Iran's
court. The Iranians I think did make
some progress. They moved in our
direction which is why I think [music]
we we we would say that we had some good
signs but they didn't move far enough.
the ball really is in their court.
[music] We've made clear where we're
willing again to be accommodating and
we've made clear where we absolutely
need to see the nuclear material come
out of the the country of Iran. We can
start to wind this thing down. I'd much
rather wind this thing down with a big
successful negotiation. So, [music]
here's the latest this morning. The US
and Iran waiting a fresh round of talks
before the ceasefire ends next week.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now
for more. Tyler, what is the potential
for a much bigger successful
negotiation?
Hey, John. Good morning. Well, at this
point, it seems that that potential is
ramping up as we get indications that
diplomacy is still a viable option on
the table. People familiar with the
matter telling us here at Bloomberg News
that the goal is that there could be a
face-to-face negotiation ahead of next
Tuesday's ceasefire deadline. President
Trump indicated as much yesterday too,
telling reporters that Iran had reached
out to the US for talks, but also
maintained that the timetable for a deal
with Iran has not changed. Now, this
White House has repeatedly maintained
that the reason why we didn't see a
resolution to the last round of talks
has to do with Iran's nuclear ambitions.
However, we're getting multiple reports
from different outlets that the US has
actually shifted its asks when it comes
to Iran's program. Outlets including
Axios, the Wall Street Journal, and the
New York Times now reporting that the US
had asked Iran to agree to a 20-year
moratorum on uranium enrichment,
different of course from a previous
demand of a permanent ban. Though, of
course, we still need to get additional
details on what else was in this ask,
including further restrictions. Now,
John, at this point, even as we have the
potential for more dialogue, there is of
course the potential for more
escalation. New overnight, Saudi Arabia
asked the US outright to end its
blockade amid concerns that there could
be re real retaliation in ports in the
region. President Trump indicated
yesterday, we could get some more
details today on which countries may be
willing to help when it comes to
securing the straight of Hermuz. But as
the French economy and finance minister
told you all earlier on the program, it
appears clear that our allies need to
get more signs of deescalation before
they commit any other assets to the
region. Tyler, good to see you as
always. Tyler Kendall there down in
Washington DC in the nation's capital.
Joining us now is Rachel Zambber of the
Center for a New American Security.
Rachel, welcome to the program. An Marie
and Victoria Coats were talking about
this in the previous hour. The American
strategy has changed. They've gone from
lifting some sanctions on some Iranian
crude to ultimately blockading all
Iranian crude. Rachel, what do you
expect to be the outcome of this shift
in strategy?
Yeah. Well, the US government, thanks
for having me, John. Um, the the US
government is really hoping that this
blockade will bring Iran to the not only
back to the table, but make more
concessions. I would note that the
Iranian response to the US 20year um
moratorum has been to come back with
another 5-year one, which I think is
similar to what they were offering back
in February before this war. Um, so
we'll see how much movement we've seen,
but ultimately what this means is that
oil flows is is that the oil flows from
Iran, if this blockade is effective, um,
could could uh could fall that could be
2 million barrels a day further offline
that was going to to China. um you know
putting you know taking you know outages
from the Gulf uh from 10 11 million
barrels a day to maybe 13 or so. So it
would just increase the outage that
we're seeing here. But the US government
is hoping that uh we get to a
resolution. But right now we're sort of
we're seeing a few t sanctioned vessels
making their way through the straight.
Will they be stopped by US military when
they get further out into the Gulf of
Oman? We'll see. I think that will be
one of the stories for today in the next
few days.
>> Rachel, speaking of that blockade, if
the United States does take over a
tanker, is it clear to you where exactly
they would bring it?
>> No, it's it's it's not um you know,
we're we're s we are in uncharted
territory. There was a point earlier
this year before the war um where the US
was I mean I called it at the time they
were using you know kinetic force to
implement financial sanctions. They did
it with Venezuela a little bit with with
tankers going to Cuba. A couple Iranian
tankers but a lot of them just sort of
spent time out at sea. Some of the
Venezuelan ones eventually came to the
United States or went to Caribbean
ports. Um, it's possible some of these
could go to go go go to Aman, could go
somewhere else and and get processed,
could go to friendly countries in Asia.
Uh, but it's not clear to me that sent
Sentcom has been charged to stop these
vessels. They've not it's not clear that
they have a a guidance about what to do
with them after the fact. This is really
a a point of leverage that the US
government is trying to impose on both
Iran and China, right? China has been
the buyer um a first and last resort for
Iran. It's also been the primary buyer
of the Russia sanctions. Um, and I'd
note as well that the US government let
you, I'm sure I've talked about this,
but have let the Russia sanctions lapse
uh within the last uh uh couple of days
uh largely because uh China was the one
who was still buying most of that oil.
>> In order for the Iranians to maybe
capitulate for the United States, does
the blockade need to go on for longer?
Because before the blockade, and we were
just discussing the sanction lift on
Iranian crude at sea, the regime brought
in hundreds of millions of dollars
because they were allowed to now export
without the sanctions. So, at a much
higher premium,
you're you're spot on. And Marie, uh
Iran has been earning more in the last
couple of months. They got more vessels
out ahead of the war um compared to what
they were normally doing. It's pretty
volatile oil flows out of Iran, I must
admit. Um, and they've been able to sell
at much higher prices. Now, the
sanctions relief that just that well
hasn't yet expired, but has been
converted into this military blockade
did not lift any of the sanctions on
what Iran could buy, how they could
spend their uh their resources. That's
one of the reasons they want to be paid
in crypto or renman or assets that don't
touch the the US Treasury. Um, but
undeniably, you know, Iran's
military-led government has been able to
support itself and, you know, it's
sitting on more cash now even as more
cash is locked up. Now, that's not going
to be enough for rebuilding Iran, but it
could be enough for the regime to remain
in place. And so, I think that's where
the US government's view that this could
be just a couple more weeks of pain. The
timelines might not line up in my view.
>> Right, Joe? Good to catch up. Thanks for
dropping by. Rachel's the ember there of
CN the Bremo's point earlier on in the
program. It just feels like this market
has just moved on completely from this
story. We've got crude south of triple
digits. The front month of the futures
curve we're talking about here on both
Brent and WTI. The physical market is
still very disrupted. Of course, the
market's taking comfort from where the
back end of the futures curve is trading
or at least further out on the futures
curve, which implies crude's going to
come back down if you view the futures
curve that way. And the equity market's
looking elsewhere, looking hopefully to
robust earnings for the year ahead.
>> The team over at Deutsche Bank just put
out the chart of the day. The playbook
pays off again and it's the S&P 500
around geopolitical events since 1939
talking about how fade any kind of
geopolitics since 1939. We're still in
the geopolitical event. It's just that
people are saying, you know, in some
ways it's all clear. It's kind of
mission accomplished. People see the
off-ramp and they're going to buy on it.
>> It's not over yet.
to your point still in it. [music]
>> We still haven't found out really a
feasible resolution going forward.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Emmy
Garrett of Morgan [music] Stanley with
metals rising on renewed Iran optimism.
Plus, you got your morning movers.
[music] The banks in focus this morning
from New York City. Good morning.
The S&P 500. Here's the reset. [music]
Wiping out the losses from the war. Now
positive on the year. An eighth day of
gains out of nine days of trading. The
rally continues. [music] Futures up this
morning by a third of 1%. Call it 210 of
1% on the S&P 500 within not 2% [music]
but within 1.5% of alltime highs on the
S&P a 9-day winning streak on the NASDAQ
100 up again could be day 10 up again
this [music] morning by 0.4%.
That's how the stage is set this
morning. Let's get you some single names
two hours [music] away from the opening
bound. Your morning movers with Yahira.
Hey yra.
>> Hi John. Taking you through those bank
earnings and how the stocks are
reacting. We start with JP Morgan.
[music] It's traders blew past
expectations with a record quarter which
is something we were watching after that
massive [music] Goldman miss yesterday
on thick trading but it was the guidance
that it disappointed investors. Shares
are down 8/10en of 1% but they have
trimmed earlier losses. Meanwhile we are
also seeing uh Wells Fargo [music]
shares down 2.4% after the firm missed
on net interest income and fees. Uh key
areas for that [music] bank. Staying on
Wall Street, we turn to Black Rockck.
Those shares up 2% in the pre-market
after the company pulled in $130 billion
[music] in client inflows with ETFs
accounting for almost all of that. And
we end on the airlines. One of the
biggest airline deals ever could be on
the table. [music] We're reporting that
United CEOs uh Scott Kirby uh has
floated a potential merger with American
Airlines that he's talked to senior
government [music] officials about that.
So now we are seeing uh American adding
to its earlier gains up 7.44%.
John [music]
>> Yara thank you. I find this a major
flex. It's just a flex. Got a really
tough moment for the airlines given a
fuel cost situation and you've got one
name coming [music] out and saying yeah
we're ready to buy. We're ready to go.
>> It's a specific flex too because
remember that the CEO of United used to
[music] work as the president of
American Airlines. So it's a really
interesting moment and an increasing
rivalry between the big three. More
still to come on that story and our
radar this morning. The US and Iran
awaiting further negotiations as
President Donald Trump presses ahead
with a naval blockade in the straight of
Hormuz. The two countries aiming to
extend the two-we ceasefire before it
expires on April 22. Elsewhere, that
story united the CEO Scott Kirby
floating a massive merger with rival
Americans. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg, Kirby pitched the idea to
senior government officials. A deal
would require approval from both the DOT
and the DOJ. And finally, let's finish
on the bank. Shares of JP Morgan and
Wells Fargo trading lower in the
pre-market. JP Morgan Bank cutting its
net interest income forecast for the
full year. Wells Fargo posting net
interest for the first quarter that
missed analyst estimates.
>> Just to put it into perspective, I feel
like a broken record, but $103 billion
was the downgrade from 104.5. That was
the upgrade from January to February and
then February back to where we are in
April and suddenly we're back to where
we were when we began the year. These
are wonderful earnings. The question is
just how much expectations had gotten
elevated heading into this. The fact
that you're having a record investment
banking, a record market activity with
respect to JP Morgan and Goldman Sachs
highlights just how much energy there
still is in the capital markets and that
I think is going to be the takeaway even
if there is a one-day snap in terms of
the performance.
>> And it comes at a time when I know Jamie
Diamond also likes to moonlight as a
geopolitical risk analyst. He's talking
about all of the risk and at this moment
they feel like the wall of worry, those
bricks continuously stack up. They are
still doing so well.
>> Stock is down by just 0.8%.
Let's talk about the shake out in the
commodity market and not in crude. Gold
snapping a two-day losing streak with
inflation concerns easing on renewed
optimism for a peace deal with Iran. Amy
G of Morgan Stanley writing the
longerterm effects of current events in
the Middle East are more bullish than
bearish for metals if they bring more
stockpiling. Amy joins us now for more.
Amy, good morning.
>> Morning
>> and welcome to New York as well. Let's
talk about the degree of disruption
you've seen in your space over the last
six weeks. How have things changed?
>> Yeah, so look, the the big change we've
seen is really the aluminium market.
This has been the most physically
disrupted from the conflict so far. Um,
first of all, it was a question of we
couldn't ship anything out. The region
is about 9% of global aluminium
production. Then we started worrying
about getting those raw materials in, so
the aluminum and bork site. And then we
actually had some strikes on facilities
and on energy infrastructure. And so
we've lost about 4% of global aluminium
production. And bear in mind in
commodities, we care about those very
small imbalances. the price is set at
the margin. So aluminium has been one of
the standout performers so far. And what
you typically see is when these
disruptions happen, you're looking at 12
months to fix them. So that's been the
big disrupted one. And then of course
we've had some changes in these macro
factors that have been a big driver for
metals. So things like the dollar, the
dollar weakness had been a big tailwind
that reversed briefly. Um obviously
coming back towards weakness again,
changes in interest rate expectations.
So that has taken a bit of the wind out
of the sales for some of the others.
Let's just stick on that line. 12 months
to fix 12 months to fix the production
to get back to where we were pre-war.
What does it mean for the demand story
over the next year? How do you
anticipate that's going to change?
>> Yeah, look, we anticipate there'll be
about a 2 million ton surplus in the
aluminium market, which is a lot of
demand to try and destroy. Um, I think
what we're seeing at the moment, similar
to oil, we've got a very steep
backquidation, so a downward slope in
the aluminium curve. What that's trying
to do is disincentivize holding excess
inventory at end users at the moment. So
we're sort of trying to incentivize
everyone hold as as little as possible
for now while we try and figure out
where we can get a bit more supply. Um
we might also start to see a bit of
switching. So could you see perhaps some
substitution towards things like steel
in the auto sector. Um but I think it's
going to stay a very very tight market.
How much have you seen different regions
pull up the slack given the fact that in
the Middle East there has been a
destruction to facilities and a
destruction to supplies? Are you seeing
for example South America start to ramp
up production? Australia, how much do
you see sort of a shifting to different
parts of the world?
>> Yeah, look the challenge with aluminium
is it's really all about electricity
supply. And if we think about everything
that's going on in the world with data
centers and AI, the one thing that we're
struggling with is electricity supply.
The two regions where really you would
think you could have a bit of response
is China and Indonesia. Now China is
actually capped on its capacity and
potentially there's a room to increase
slightly your amperage and get a little
bit more out of it but that there's not
that much that China can do and then
Indonesia has a good pipeline but we
kind of knew that that was coming
already. They can't really do much
quickly and again takes 12 months to fix
a smelter also takes time to ramp one
up. Um and power costs just becoming
very very difficult. I mean, even in the
US, we've had smelters being sold to
data centers, even where in the US,
you've not just got aluminium prices,
but you've got this record Midwest
premium. So, the all-in price here is
about $6,000, and that's still not been
enough. So, this sounds really
problematic. This sounds like it should
be moving markets more. It seems like a
shortage. Seems like something that's
going to cause inflation. Are you as
sanguin as the rest of markets that seem
to be just sort of declaring the all
clear, mission accomplished? I think
look there's a clearly an element of
positioning and flows here. Aluminium
was already a very very long market
coming into this. So I would say it's
not like the market was caught short and
had to suddenly cover and I think that
explains partly it. Um some of this is
playing out also in the physical
premiums in different regions. So for
example in Europe you used to pay about
$300 on top of the aluminium price to
get metal. You're now paying $600. So
that's doubled. In the Midwest as well
keeps rising. Japan premiums. So I think
we are seeing it. But I would say um the
the physical realities of this are going
to become clear as time goes on.
>> Amy, this is just the latest shock when
it comes to what's going on in the
Middle East. A lot of importers were
also dealing with the on andoff
potential of what was going on with
Donald Trump's tariff policies. Are you
seeing more countries stockpile base
metals?
>> So I think we're seeing more countries
definitely talk about it. Um at the
moment we haven't seen too much in terms
of what we could say extra buying but
what we see is first of all this started
off with the US project vault talking
about you know we need to have stock
piles we need to make sure we've got
security of supply chains we're now
seeing the EU the UK Australia South
Korea everyone's starting to bring up
that word stockpiling and so I think as
we've had enough supply shocks now we
had this in co that definitely drove
increased inventories at the company
level but this time governments are
paying attention too so I think this is
going to be a deem for the next few
years that's actually going to be pretty
bullish for the complex.
>> Yeah. How much of a premium is that
adding to prices?
>> So I think this will probably keep your
prices well above sort of you typically
we would say a price should be anchored
around cost support or incentive price
what you need to bring on for a new
mine. Um but if you think about
inventory building it's essentially
demand. So that allows us to trade at a
premium. So for example in copper we
would say that kind of incentive price
is more like $10,000 a ton to bring on a
new mine. But we we forecast prices
staying well above that sort of $12,000
uh through the the medium term just to
to take into account that stock piling.
>> Can we finish on gold?
>> Absolutely.
>> South of 5K,
>> what's going to happen to demand for
gold now? And how has that shifted? How
has that changed? We've talked so much
about this massive tailwind of central
bank buying. Is that still going to be
the story or is that ended?
>> So I think the central bank buying has
been the sort of stable level of gold
demand under the surface. Although what
we did see in in March was Turkey
selling gold to underpin the LRA. In
contrast though, we had China actually
buying the most gold they had bought
since January 2025. So a bit of a
reaction to that pullback in prices. I
think the bigger factor that's going to
swing around is what the exchange traded
funds are doing. So last year they
bought nearly as much gold as the
central banks having bought zero the
year before. So they are the ones that
really swing their behavior. That's much
more dependent on interest rates. So
again they have been selling and I think
also there was quite a lot of buying
that was just related to how well gold
was doing. So I think the fact that has
come off we've sort of reconnected with
that real yield story as well. I think
maybe that stops a bit of the the
near-term upside and just keeps it a
little bit more to do with fundamentals.
>> God this morning slightly positive by8%.
Just one final question slightly outside
of your remit, but try and indulge me.
In this market, particularly in
equities, they've taken a lot of comfort
from the shape of the futures curve in
crude. At the very front, you've got
these very elevated prices. The closer
you get to the physical spot price,
you've got a lift in the price. Further
out, you've got a massive decline.
That's the backdation people have been
talking about now for weeks, six weeks,
more than a month. People in equities
see that as a market implied bet on the
future price of crude. Is that the right
way of looking at things when you look
at a futures curve?
>> Yeah. So, look, I think the way we would
think about the futures curve is more a
reflection of inventories and flows
rather than a forecast for the price.
And this applies to metals as well.
Typically, when you have that that
downward slope, spot prices higher than
futures. That's telling people we need
to clear everything out of inventory. We
need as much oil as you can give us at
the moment. So, if anything, that
downward slope is usually a bullish
signal for commodities rather than a
bearish one.
>> Interesting. Amy, it's good to see you.
Thanks for being here. Thanks for
breaking it down. Amy Gower there of
Morgan Stanley on the commodity market.
Brent crude and WTI just south of triple
digits so far this morning and closing
below triple digits for four consecutive
sessions just adding some of that
enthusiasm in this equity market. Let's
give you an update on stories elsewhere
this morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Yhira has more. Hey Yahra.
>> Hi John. Nvidia is denying a report that
it's acquiring a large company that
would quote reshape the PC [music]
landscape. The website semi acccurate
saying the chipmaker has been
negotiating a deal for more than a year.
The report sparking a rally in [music]
both Dell and HP shares.
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessant saying
banks may soon need to collect
citizenship information from their
customers. The move could make it more
difficult for immigrants and some
citizens to [music] open US bank
accounts. Uh Bessant saying an executive
order mandating the change is [music] in
process.
and a Blue Owl fund raised $400 million
from bond investors, marking the first
deal [music] of its kind in over a
month. The bonds were issued by Blue Owl
Capital and price to yield 6 and a half%
[music]
with proceeds to be used to repay
existing debt though shares up 2%.
That's Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yhara in the
next hour in about [music] 30 minutes
time. I'm next on the program,
calculating the impact of war.
>> If we were going to have an extended
[music]
9000 plus dollars a barrel of oil month
after month after month, we would
[music] have to here in the US start
factoring that into our calculations, it
would start spilling over what we've
done month after month. We're just
waiting for the next [music] month, I
guess. You know, it's adding up. Son of
designer Franklin Templeton joins us
next from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
Stocks up again. Getting used to saying
that. [music] Up another2% on the S&P,
up4 on the NASDAQ. Lots to talk about in
the bond market as well. So, let's do
it. And fixed income state side yields
just [music] about unchanged on a 10
year at 429. Things haven't been
unchanged over the last month. We talked
about [music] it in the last hour. the
move higher you've seen in UK yields
through the month of March up by close
to 70 basis [music] points, levels we
haven't seen since 2008. Well, the
buyers have stepped in with those
levels. The debt management office in
the UK [music] just issued 15 billion
pounds of 10-year bonds at a yield of
just a little over 4.91% the highest
since 2008. So, the good news for the
United Kingdom is they had a record
volume of investor demand coming in
[music] to buy said debt offering. Yay.
That was the headline earlier today. A
little bit of a problem though when you
take a look at what kind of premium they
have to pay up [music] to get that
interest, which again goes back to the
core question we keep asking. How much
fiscal headroom do a lot of these
nations [music] have to meet any
softness in the economic outlook based
on higher energy prices, [music] higher
inflation?
>> And also another dimension, we talked
about it briefly, the degree of demand
that will step in. [music] Now we've
backed up to these levels. We saw it in
Japan the highest yield since the 1990s
through the month of March into April.
[music] In the UK since OA in Germany, I
think since 2011 and this is why bond
investors are seeing this as an
opportunity. Now whether it's the right
opportunity, I don't know. Not for me to
[music] say, but we've heard that
repeatedly over the last month that with
this back up in yields, the buyers would
step in.
>> Yeah. If somebody wants a relatively
risk-free, you can make that argument.
Uh a relatively risk-free portfolio at
5%. Well, if you don't have to lever it
up, it looks pretty good. Especially
based on where we were, say [music] six,
seven, eight years ago.
>> The latest out of the bond market so far
this morning under surveillance this
morning calculating the impact of
[music] war.
>> A lot of it just depends how long does
this go. [music] If we were going to
have an extended 90 plus dollars a
barrel of oil month after month after
month, we would have to here in the US
start factoring that into our
calculations. it would start spilling
over. It first go [music] into airlines,
anybody who who has to drive, and then
it would probably pretty quickly start
getting into food pricing. So, here's
the latest this morning. The Federal
Reserve weighing the impact of
increasing fuel costs with fresh
inflation data due out in less than an
hour's time. Sire Franklin Templeton
writing, "The Fed will stay on hold.
It's too early to panic about the damage
that high energy prices will do to
growth." Son joins us now for more. Son,
welcome to the program. I've got to ask
you the question. What kind of damage,
if any, do you expect from the higher
prices we've seen so far?
>> Well, the prices, Hi, Johnson, thanks
for having me. The prices price
increases we've seen so far in real
terms are still 20 25% below what we saw
in 2022. What damage did they do? No, I
I I mean clearly on the margin having $4
a gallon gas prices is problematic, but
you have to remember since 2019 we've
had 27 28% inflation. So in real terms
$4 today just doesn't mean what $4 even
four years ago meant. Let alone $4 say
20078.
>> Is that an argument for higher yields
from here?
>> Yeah. Yeah. [laughter]
So I would say that as far as yields are
concerned, I do think that uh this at
430 this isn't a buying opportunity. I
think we are for the US. I I I hear what
you're saying about the UK and parts of
Europe. I think that there will be more
significant damage over there to GDP
growth and potentially you do have
opportunities. However, in the US, I
think there is scope for inflation to go
higher because uh there's scope still to
get that famous tailwind from
consumption that where that we've been
waiting for from the tax uh uh tax
refunds. In addition, I think that the
budget deficit could go higher uh you
know, as we start seeing more defense
spending. At some point, we'll have to
see that. It's hard to say that it's all
going to happen this year, but over
time, just restocking our military
implies a higher budget deficit unless
they cut expenditure, which nobody seems
to have any desire to do.
>> So now, it seems like heading into this
year, people were looking for a yield
curve steepener. Then it suddenly became
a yield curve flattener. You saw the
flattest yield curve going back to 2022
at the end of last month. Now people are
gaming out what you're talking about. A
Fed that might remain on hold or even
cut rates even as inflation inflationary
pressures remain. How much do you expect
the yield curve to steepen over the next
say 6 months?
>> So since I don't expect the Fed to cut
and I do think longend yields are
probably going to go up. I think that
the yield curve can steepen. How far can
the how far can the long end go?
depending on I hate saying this but
depending on how long the war lasts uh
that has inflation consequence
inflationary consequences eventually and
it also has certain implications as far
as the budget deficit deficit is
concerned so I'd say could you see 25
basis points more 30 basis points more
of yield curve steepening from here on
yes and even more as markets if markets
start pricing out rate cuts
At what point do government bond yields
start crowding out some of the corporate
bond issuance given the fact that the
United States and other countries are
going to have to sell debt to raise
money to pay for some of the
expenditures that you were talking about
and given the fact that right now we're
seeing a glut a record amount of
corporate bond offerings come to market.
>> Lisa we are a wash in liquidity. If I
look at how much we have in the short
end, in cash, in liquidity, in
ultrashort, uh the ultrashort parts of
the bond market, I think we still have
an overhang of liquidity from close to
soon 20 years of massive QE, which has
never significantly been reigned in and
budget deficits. It's just a wash in
liquidity. I don't see that crowding out
happening. I think rates will be higher
and I think we will see uh interest in
the bond market.
>> So now when you look at a higher budget
deficit in the United States because the
restocking of the military and higher
defense budget, do you have to start
pricing that in before the midterm
elections this year? Because
at minimum likely the Republicans are
going to lose the house.
>> Yeah. No, I think that at the question
of how the how that deficit increases
and the timing of it, I think some of it
probably does start showing up as we get
closer to midterms. For one thing, we
probably won't see the tariff revenues,
which were never really budgeted, coming
in quite as strongly as was anticipated
given the changes which are in place. As
far as tariffs are concerned, there are
variety of reasons to anticipate the
expost budget deficit is going to be
somewhat higher than the Xante one
despite the fact that higher inflation
does lead to higher budget re uh budget
uh revenues mechanically that happens.
>> When it comes to tariffs, doesn't the US
government have another bill to pay the
refunds?
>> Well, you know, the bill to pay and the
refunds I is it going to take years or
is it going to take months? I really
don't know because I have no idea how
quickly that will be done or how the
logistics of it are actually going to be
solved and nobody's really been a able
to give me clarity on what the logistics
of tariff refunds how it's going to
actually play out.
>> So know if I was in line to be the Fed
chair, I'm not. If I was, I'd be
delaying processing my paperwork because
I'd have nothing to do with what's going
to happen this summer. How messy I'm not
implying anything. How messy is
communication going to be later this
summer?
>> Actually, you know, Jonathan, I think
that communication would be rather easy
because I think that inflation will
probably uh help any incoming Fed
chairman by showing up high. You don't
cut rates into that. Uh I I did hear
there's still a big expectation that
somehow rates will be cut because Wash
is coming in and Trump has given him the
job. But if inflation picks up and again
it will it shows up inflation when we
see fuel prices go up it will show up in
inflation. It's a separate question as
to whether it's enough to actually have
a very detrimental impact on
consumption. However, it's going to show
up in inflation and I'm not anticipating
a massive slowdown in the labor market.
So you put those two together,
communication is actually not
complicated at all.
>> Would make it complicated for a man that
was employed to cut interest rates. That
I guess is a different story. So, it's
good to see you. It's good to see you as
always. Side there of Franklin Templeton
on the future of the Federal Reserve and
this bond market. Check out this move.
American Airlines in the premarket. This
market shown that report by us a lot of
respect. Stock is up by 9% in the
pre-market. That report, if you're just
joining us, United Airlines CEO Scott
Kirby exploring the potential of tying
up with American Airlines. American
Airlines up in a pre-market by close to
9%.
>> Yeah. and uh United shares also up in
pre-market trading. The market is saying
please, this looks like a great deal.
Whether or not regulators think the
same, highly unlikely, although we shall
see because evidently Scott Kirby talked
directly with President Trump about this
heading into higher oil prices. We're
getting reports that the European Union
is preparing for shortages in jet fuel
in the very near future. How much better
of a hand do the strongest players have?
They have an incredible upper uh hand
when it comes to maneuvering through
this and Scott Kirby wants to take
advantage of that with acquisitions.
>> It would be a big hurdle to clear for
the DOJ and for the Department of
Transportation to allow this merger to
go through, but this isn't the Biden era
where you can't have a Coach handbag tie
up. So potentially there is some runway
for a sort of airline deal. And maybe to
your point, they're anchoring to the
extreme. It's not this one, but this is
where they're going to set the debate
around and then say, "Okay, if you think
that's too big and too many problems for
antitrust, JetBlue,
>> yeah, how about something smaller?"
>> How about that? America right now up by
8 to 9%. Can you imagine if that did go
through? What that would open up, not
just in that industry,
>> but in other industries, [music]
other players who would look at the
competition,
>> Google and Amazon,
>> my goodness, beyond [music] that,
>> it would be crazy. [laughter]
>> Just crazy. Coming up in the next hour,
Joe Cassidy of RBC, Alicia Lavine of
BNY, the Port of [music] LA executive
director Gene Soka, and Stephanie Roth
of Wolf Research. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance is just around
the corner.
>> It's going to be a lot of stress on the
market.
>> Investors always hit the sidelines when
you have uncertainty.
>> It's risky not to take [music] risk. The
market is being very calm about this
whole situation.
>> There's a lot of other themes that
people are going to have to sort of roll
their sleeves up on. Again,
>> this is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now,
and your scores look like this. Equity
futures pushing higher by a quarter of
1% on [music] the S&P 500. on the NASDAQ
up by 0.5 on the NASDAQ a 9day [music]
winning streak in the commodity market
Brent and WTI pulling back WTI this
morning down by 2% [music] Brent down by
8/10 of 1% 98 on Brent 96 on WTI this
headline just crossed in the Bloomberg
terminal Iran mulling pausing its
[music] homeless shipping to avoid
derailing talks
>> yeah this according to a person familiar
with the thrron's deliberations as
reported by Bloomberg news saying that
this maybe signifies this desire to
[music] keep talks on the rails to avoid
escalation in any form as they continue
to have ongoing face-to-face
negotiations. A real question here about
uh uranium enrichment as well as
reopening the street of Hermuz not open
yet nonetheless not escalating the
conflict further.
>> Well, exactly. [music] This says to me
that Tyrron wants to have these talks
potentially as Reuters reporting this
weekend. We reported that talks are
potentially underway but as soon as
maybe Friday and Saturday and Sunday. So
basically what they are going to do is
hold back on [music] any sort of
maritime activity to make sure that
there isn't an escalation. So keep
things at this moment [music] the status
quo the ceasefire holds that at this
moment would be viewed as a very
pragmatic [music] step for this regime.
>> That is contributing to the reset we've
seen in this equity market wiping out
the losses since the start of the war.
The S&P 500 coming into this morning
positive for the year. supporting that
maybe [music] some bank earnings and the
bank earnings so far have been very very
mixed from JP Morgan from Goldman Sachs
City just crossing moments ago city
crossing seconds ago
>> yeah and coming out with a beat for
fixed income uh currencies and commodity
sales and trading coming in at 5 almost2
$2 billion versus the estimate of 5.02
billion equity sales and trading coming
in at 2.08 08 billion versus the
estimate of 1.73 billion. Pretty much
across the board, there was a slight
miss on the banking side. The CEO Jane
Frasier coming out saying services had
an outstanding quarter. Uh you're
hearing that there is this ongoing right
sizing of City Group and that the bank
is entering into into its final phase of
divevestatures. But the real takeaway
here, capital markets very strong.
Expectations were very high for the most
part. Most banks are clearing those
hurdles. The response in markets though
has been a little bit more
differentiated.
>> This is the early move in the
pre-market. The stock is a little bit
higher by more than 1%. [music] Danny
Burgers pouring through those numbers.
We'll get to Danny in just a moment to
set up the next 60 minutes. We'll catch
up with Alicia Lavine of BNY Wealth
following a morning of bank earnings.
The port of LA [music]
executive director Gene Soka joins us as
war in Iran weighs on global supply
chains and Stephanie Roth of Wolf
Research breaking down the latest
inflation data. The latest earnings.
Then to wrap them up, we've heard from
JP Morgan this morning from Wells Fargo
and City just moments ago. Danny has
more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. And the story is trading very
very strong for City posting 5.2 billion
dollars of trading for FIC. That comes
under just under the high watermark of a
record they set in 2020 during co but
easily above expectations. Their equity
business which keep in mind this is much
smaller for city posts a record sum $2.1
billion of trading. The estimate was for
$1.7 billion. This is the first time in
city history that we have an equity
trading figure that's above $2 billion.
Lisa did mention this. There is some
disappointment coming around their
banking revenue that comes in at 1.7
just over $1.7 billion. The estimate was
for 2.1. But the big takeaways and the
reason you are seeing positivity for
city this was the highest quarterly
revenue in about a decade for city. the
best return on tangible common equity in
five years from city and Jane Frasier
and the team go on to explain that they
are 90% of the way to completing their
programs around their back office the
regulatory reporting issue something
that they had really been hit through so
it's this transformation of city that
Jane Frasier has been undertaking as CEO
and they are getting closer and closer
to completing that in the meantime
notching very strong numbers for trading
>> Danny great coverage this morning we've
seen those strong numbers for trading at
JP Morgan as well city by 2% in the
pre-market. Jar Cassidy of RBC is back
with us for more. Jar, you had an
outperform on JP Morgan, an outperform
on Wells Fargo, an outperform on City.
Let's just sit on City. The revamp under
Jane Fraser. How impressed have you been
so far,
>> John? Very impressive. As you can see
from today's numbers, the return on
changeable common equity was lifted up
to about 13%
as it was just pointed out on your
program. This is one of the better
numbers we've seen in quite some time.
And she's done a very good job in
divesting the unprofitable non US
consumer businesses. The last one up is
of course the IPO for the Mexican
subsidiary. They have the anchor
investors. So we should see that this
this year they have their big investor
day coming up in May, John. And I think
you're going to hear a lot of positive
commentary about the outlook for city at
that investor day. I was struck by uh
the commentary that we heard from Jane
Fraser in addition to the positivity
that you're expressing and that the
results most broadly did seem to
demonstrate. She said we're off to an
exceptionally strong start in 2026. How
do you pair that with concerns about
what's going on with the Middle East
with some of the uh sort of warning
discussions we heard from the CEOs of
Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan, and beyond?
Lisa, it's a good point because you know
the first quarter was a tale of two
quarters. When you think about coming
into the year up until the end of
February, the quarter was very strong in
many of the different areas for city and
its peers. Then the breakout of
hostilities at the end of February
increase that volatility particularly in
the capital markets area. So there is
still a lot of uncertainty out there.
But should the hostilities in the Middle
East start to die down and we get this
resolved sometime in the second quarter,
that points to a very healthy second
half of the year for the banks like
Croup.
>> You were talking about what's left in
terms of the revamp. Jane Frasier said
that the bank was about 90% of the way
to completing the programs it
established to fix back office and
regulatory reporting problems as pegged
by regulators number of years ago. How
different is the bank today than say
five years ago and how does that sort of
set us up in the current environment?
I think it's very different Lisa because
obviously you've had a change in
leadership compared to five years ago
and I think that this leadership led by
Jane Frasier is very focused on
delivering the numbers and holds people
accountable within the organization and
that's probably one of the big biggest
differences and it's showing up on the
bottom line and so once they finish the
complete revamp as you point out it's
90% completed once they finish it then
it's going to pivot from not a
turnaround story, but two now it's a
growth story and this first quarter
results really gives them a good jump on
that growth story.
>> Jared, we know you're super busy this
morning, so thanks for making some time
for us. Joe Cassidy there of RBC
breaking down the results from City.
City up on the year by about 8% coming
into today, up again this morning by
1.6% for stocks more broadly finding a
firmer footing of late with the big
banks kicking off first quarter earning
season. Alicia Lavine of BNY Wealth
joins us now for more. Alicia, good
morning. Good to see you. Good morning.
>> This market has moved on moved on from
events in the Middle East. Do you agree
with the direction of travel?
>> So we do agree with the direction of
travel. We obviously remained concerned
but not willing to change our
allocations because we felt that
ultimately um the damage that would be
imposed by $120 oil for a long time
would not allow this war to continue
much longer. And so as a result, you
know, we came into this with a pretty
strong economy, a good setup with fiscal
support, all the refunds coming from the
IRS this season right now. Um the labor
market looking like it was turning a
little bit. And so you h and you have
all the um incentives on the corporate
side for investing. And so when you put
it all together, you know, the view that
perhaps the US could have grown at 3% or
more this year was the narrative coming
into the war. And so maybe you shave
some growth off of that. But ultimately
with earnings expectations at double
digits, you know, on March 1st, now 3%
higher than they were, you have a
situation where the fundamentals
actually got stronger. Even as we worry
about inflation and as we worry about
where this conflict could go on the left
tail,
>> difficult to get your head around that
over the last six weeks, given
everything that's happened, the outlook
for earnings actually improved. It
didn't deteriorate.
>> It did not deteriorate. Like it's really
shocking. You know, we tell clients,
look, earnings expectations are actually
higher than they were January 1st. It's
not just driven by energy. I mean,
that's the obvious one that energy
earnings are now positive. They were
expected to be negative, but materials
and the tech sector. So, you know, the
the the great the great partner to the
S&P forward motion is tech earnings and
it's just they moved higher. The
expectations moved higher. So, the other
thing that happened or didn't happen is
[snorts] that there have been no
downgrades at all. And so we're so
that's a thing to keep in a look at like
we're in the beginning of earning
season. You have to see our input costs
higher. You know, do we have to shave
revenue on the expectations? Because
that's what didn't happen. We haven't
heard anybody bring earnings estimates
down. So that's really the tension here.
We're now at a 15% expected earnings
growth for 2026. Is it realistic?
Because the margins are the highest too.
I'm not sure that's so realistic and
that's where we would look for any kind
of mo moderating force on this. So it's
been a storm. It's been a month-long
storm. It's been a 46 day storm and a
real question of what has changed
fundamentally in the outlook going
forward as a result of the Iran war. A
number of people have pointed to
leadership. To your point, the gains
have come in profit expectations at big
tech, at materials, not necessarily
consumer discretionary. How much is this
back to where we were at the same time
last year when tech just reclaimed its
leadership?
>> Look, we had this conversation a few
months ago where I said, "Look, I think
tech can actually move higher into the
rest of the year. Everybody's selling
software. They're getting out of tech,
getting rid of the cues because they see
more interesting opportunities in
international and more traditional, you
know, I call it the dirty industry. So,
materials and energy and um utilities
and in the end, tech has actually done
quite well since March 1st because the
earnings power are there. And if you're
worried about growth and you're worried
about inflation, you flee to tech. And I
think there's a little bit now of a
two-way conversation like are you being
paid to take a risk in this sector? I
think the answer is yes.
>> The other thing that uh people were
talking about earlier this year is the
broadening out away from the United
States to the rest of the world. We had
Black Rockck Jeanovan come on and say
that he liked emerging markets. We had
the same kind of commentary earlier this
morning from Brian Levit of Oenheimer.
How much do you expect the dollar to
revert back to a weakening trend to
allow that type of broadening out
geographically? So I think one of the
most shocking things that's happened
during the war is the fact that the
dollar has not strengthened more. The
dollar is essentially 1% higher than it
was March 1st. One would have expected
that the dollar would have strengthened
much more based on the concern of the
risk. So then what you have to say is
look if this is simply a uh crisis
induced strength in the dollar and
ultimately it means there's downward
pressure on the dollar exus markets will
do quite well and I think we're in that
place where we never thought the dollar
was going to collapse this year the way
many folks did but it does seem that it
should have been stronger than it was
and and it wasn't. So um I'd say rest of
world looks okay. If you are worried at
all about tail risk, then emerging
markets and developed international are
going to be the areas where you feel it
first. We you spoke about the bond
yields here on the show earlier this
morning. Global bond yields have sold
off much more than in the US and that is
a concern. So I think you a little bit
have to be careful about the you know is
this a trade or is this an allocation
for the next 12 months. For the next 12
months I still prefer to be in the US.
>> Within the US you like industrials.
>> I do.
>> Can you just tell us why? because you
have incentives for first of all I think
you have to think about this what's
driving the growth here the AI buildout
is remarkable what's happened to some of
these energy providers and industrials
is remarkable you have stocks up 40 to
50% year to date and that's because
there are massive incentives to build
from the tax code but also the enduser
demand is there and that story is still
intact that's why PMIs are positive
that's why you know the exhousing
manufacturing is positive because you
are having this forward push. What got
lost in this conversation is that we're
really undergoing an industrial
revolution. So we've all become
geopolitical strategists for a month,
but actually the AI forward push is is
moving forward. And so we see the
reshoring theme and the AI buildout
theme as as enduring for the next two
years.
>> We've certainly seen that in the ISM.
Some decent momentum in that data.
Alicia, it's good to see you.
>> Great to see you.
>> Alicia Lavine of BNY Wealth.
constructive and has been throughout
this war and we should give people a
nod, tip our hats to the people who have
been constructive throughout this war
because there was a lot of risk out
there and this market has reset big
time. There's still a lot of risk out
there but this market's basically done a
round trip
>> and pretty much everyone who has
remained bullish has pointed to earnings
and earnings expectations that have
risen during this period of turmoil and
we haven't seen guidance materially
lowered and I mean materially from where
they were earlier.
>> Haven't seen the cuts. To Alicia's
point,
>> we haven't seen the cuts. Now are
analysts just too slow? They're waiting
for the management teams over the next
month to do the work for them.
>> It seems like the actual management
teams haven't been guiding them that way
either because you heard from the
airlines saying that they're going to
maintain guidance even with the
potential hit from oil prices. So, a
real question about whether growth was
just expected to be so much higher and
so now the actual outlook is pretty much
the same as it was earlier.
>> Adding to gains this morning, we're up
by a quarter of 1% on the S&P with an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Yahara has more. Hey,
Yahara.
>> Hi John. Taking another look at City, we
are seeing shares up 1.3% after the bank
posted a beat on revenue and profits.
City saw 5.2 billion in fixed sales
coming in above estimates while EC
equities trading crossed [music] the $2
billion mark pushing the bank to its
highest quarterly revenue in a decade.
Iran is considering pausing shipments
through the straight of Hormuse to avoid
testing a US blockade. Sources telling
us here at Bloomberg that Iran could be
aiming to avoid an immediate escalation
and derailing peace talks. The US and
Iran are reportedly sorting [music] out
logistics for a second face-to-face
meeting. And we are seeing shares of
Global Star rising 9% in the pre-market.
Amazon agreeing to buy the satellite
operator for $90 a share. Amazon is
aiming to compete with [music] Elon
Musk's SpaceX and its Starlink network.
The deal is expected to close next year.
That's your Bloomberg [music] brief.
John
>> Yahara. Thank you. Thanks for the
update. Bit of an update as well on
Kevin Walsh. We talked about that in the
past 10 minutes or so. Is a hearing
underway coming up soon. [music]
>> That's according to Tim Scott, who of
course is the chairman of the banking
committee, so it's important what he
says. And he says he's cleared all the
hurdles and now we will go to have a
hearing for Kevin Morris next week.
>> The [music] latest details from Senator
Scott so far this morning. Up next,
we'll get you some morning calls. Plus,
we'll catch up with the port of LA
executive director Gene Soka as the
water run weighs on [music] global
supply chains. That's next from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
Sentcom has been charged to stop these
vessels. They've not, it's not clear
that they have a a guidance about what
to do with them after the fact. This is
really a a point of leverage that the US
government is trying to impose on both
Iran and China. The US government's view
that this could be just a couple more
weeks of pain. The timelines might not
line up in my view.
>> That was Rachel Zber of the Center for
New American Security weighing in on the
situation a little bit earlier. Your
equity market update looks like this.
We're [music] positive by 0.3% on the
S&P up by.5 on the NASDAQ. In the
commodity market, Brent [music] and WTI
trading softer this morning. WCI is down
by close to 3%. Brent's down by 1.3. 98
and 96 [music] respectively. That's the
price action. Let's get you some morning
calls. First up, Bank of America
lowering its price target on Goldman to
1050 after it reported earnings. Seeing
results that are likely to give
investors ports. Your second call from
UBS upgrading Tesla to neutral.
believing shares are currently at a more
reasonable level following the selloff.
[music] And finally, City raising its
price target on Alphabet to 405,
believing its first quarter results are
likely to be [music] expectations. That
name is up in a pre-market by more than
1%. Let's turn back to trade. The war in
Iran weighing on [music] shipping as the
US blockade of the straight of enters
day two. The port of Los Angeles
executive director Gene Seroka writing,
"It will take months to untangle global
supply chains. The economic ripple
effects are real. They are growing. Gan
joins us now for more. Gan, a good
friend of this show and thanks for
making time for us this morning, sir.
Let's start with the economic effects.
The ripples you're seeing, where do they
start? How have they started? And where
are they going from here?
>> Good morning, John. An adage in our port
industry is that for every one day of
service disruption, it takes about 3
days to catch up. Now we're looking at
about 4 and a half months with respect
to the straight overuse to get all these
ships container tanker bulk back into
normal rotations. Now there may be some
fits and starts and some quick answers
that could be delivered but once the
straight is open there is a lot of work
to do in this supply chain. We're seeing
right now where vessel fuel prices have
doubled over the last month and a half.
And that carry-on effect to importers
and exporters right here in the US is
happening today. They probably will
simply pass on these costs to the
American consumer and buyer.
>> So, Gene, fuel costs are coming up. The
length and duration of the trips is
getting longer because they've had to
reroute a lot of this stuff. We've seen
diversions pop up in different places as
well. From your perspective, you
expecting congestion as well. How lumpy
are some of these arrivals going to be?
And how complicated does that make life
for you?
>> Each trade, John, is a little bit
different. For now, the 45 46th day.
You're not seeing a lot of traffic move
from Asia to the Arabian Gulf. Red Sea
and East Africa also disrupted. In the
Trans-Pacific trade, the ship transits
are fairly normal. We're seeing the
regular departures and arrivals from
Asia. But it's the ports that we share
with those Middle East destinations that
are becoming somewhat worrisome.
Singapore, Kawang, Shanghai, Korea, and
then Japan ports. If this cargo
continues to pile up at these locations,
it may just simply get in the way of
cargo that's more fluid like that coming
to and from the United States. I must
say though with calls over the weekend
and last night the Asia ports are doing
a fantastic job of keeping that cargo
separated. So the fluidity of the trades
that continue to move remains intact.
>> Gene, when you see individuals having to
change basically some of their supply
chain routes because of what is going
on. Do you see any of this sticking even
if the straight opens? We have a little
bit more of structural changes going
forward.
And Marie, this is always an outcome of
disruption. Once cargo finds its way to
a cleaner or smoother path, it tends to
stay in that in that way for some time.
We've had troubles over the past years
with drought conditions in the Panama
Canal. The Red Sea security issues
leading to drops in Suez crossings by up
to 80%. more cargo now moving towards
the west coast of the United States in
that transpacific trade where previously
it had alternative routes and those that
were quite lucrative for shippers going
through those canals more than likely
what we'll see is a reset
at some point because that consuming
public in the Middle East is very strong
albeit only 10% of worldwide container
trade the buying power for furniture
footwear perishable commodities and
other retail Retail goods will continue
to be a primary market for those serving
the Middle East.
>> I know there will be a delay even when
the straight opens, but we haven't even
seen the Red Sea get back to normal
levels given what took place in the
previous years with the Houthies. When
do you think the straight of Hermoose
will actually get back to normal levels
after there is a more lasting ceasefire?
>> That's the biggest question. And I don't
think it's going to be a straight line.
Amory, one day we're going to get a
message that says all clear. I think
this is going to be an iterative
process. We're hoping that both sides
can get back to the negotiating table to
find a way towards some assemblance of a
truce and then start having a
conversation about the commercial
implications and how we restart this
engine. Right now, this blockade is for
negotiating purposes to try to put some
pressure on the system and especially
with the price of oil over $100 a
barrel. This is a huge revenue pop for
some and it could be a tremendous
cost implication for those that can't
get their oil and energy products to
market. Probably at the same time
there's some mind sweeping going on in
preparation for the day. We can see that
straight open up a little bit. But when
we've gone from basically 110 ships a
day down to just a trickle, it will take
some time to get these products moving
in and out. We're all hoping for the
best. Gene, appreciate your time. You're
a gentleman. Thank you. The Port of Los
Angeles executive director Gene Soka on
the situation, the congestion in certain
ports in Asia and a workarounds those
guys have been playing up and trying to
work through over the last 6 weeks.
Yeah, a lot of this uh really goes down
to a fundamental question that a lot of
people are asking, which is how much is
the concept of free passageway on the
seas truly in jeopardy or becoming
obsolete and how much does this set a
precedent for that versus say uh you
know some of the previous conflicts and
what's happened there and that's really
going to be crucial to a lot of the
supply chains.
>> Things have got messy very very quickly.
Up next on the [music] program we'll
talk about the data PPI data set to
cross. We'll get reaction from Stephanie
Roth of Wolf Research. She's with us to
break it down. Plus, the latest from the
earnings call with JP Morgan's Jamie
Diamond and some [music] comments on
there on Kevin Walsh. That conversation
up next.
Another read on inflation data in just a
moment. PPI is just [music] around the
corner, seconds away. Mike McKe will
break it down for you in just a moment.
The scores heading into that equity
futures positive by a third of 1% 1 hour
away from the open up and bound. We're
[music] up6 on the NASDAQ. On the NASDAQ
100, a 9-day winning streak and it could
be 10day. Phenomenal. Could be a 10day
winning streak on the NASDAQ 100. In the
bond market was set up as follows.
Yields on 10 just about unchanged
[music] throughout much of this morning.
Let's call it 430. With your economic
data, Mike McKe has more. Hey, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. It's a little bit
better news than anticipated. PPI on a
headline basis up just 510 of a percent.
The expectation for was for 1.1%.
Uh on a year-over-year basis that puts
us at 4% from 3.4. The expectation was
we'd hit 4.6%. The core up just a tenth.
The forecast was for 4/10. Last month it
was 510 and that puts the year-over-year
for that at 3.8%. Uh the core x food
energy and trade is up 3.6%. That's a
tick up from the last time uh in the
March uh rise for final demand prices
1.6% advance in the index for final
demand goods prices for final demand
services were unchanged. And what's
interesting about that is that final
demand services were the uh issue in
last month's big rise in terms of what
happened. Uh the one thing I want to
check here is uh what happened with uh
the services prices that we anticipated
would go up and that's the the main
issue here uh for uh for airline fairs
and things like that. Um it doesn't look
like that's immediately going to come
up. So I'm going to leave that for you
guys. But uh airline fairs were supposed
to go up. Gasoline prices of course uh
going up significantly and those are
major issues. I want to leave you with
one other thought and that is that uh
you have reported uh that the senator
from South Carolina Tim Scott who's the
chairman of the banking committee says
uh that governor that Kevin Walsh the
Fed chair designate will have a hearing
next week. I point out that on Tuesday
the 21st Christopher Waller the Fed
governor who was considered for the
chairmanship is giving remarks on how he
would change the Fed in the future. be
very interesting if the two of them end
up on the same day.
>> Mike McKe, thank you sir. Appreciate the
update. Mike McKe breaking down the PPI
data and the future of the Federal
Reserve. Just an update on the future of
the Federal Reserve. This from Punchbot
just moments ago that Kevin Walsh's
confirmation hearing for Federal Reserve
chair will be next Tuesday, April 21,
according to multiple sources with
knowledge of the plans. The Senate
Banking Committee is planning to notice
the hearing later on today with just a
month or so left on JPAL's terms. So
things are moving forward slowly but
moving forward.
>> Yeah. So he has his hearing. The
question is, does the Jay Powell probe
get dropped so then Senator Tom Tillis
can then vote for Kevin Worsh to get
through the hearing and then have a full
vote not in the committee but actually
on the Senate floor? That is going to be
the key question because Kevin Worsh
getting a hearing, okay, great. That
moves it forward slightly. But unless
Tom Tillis decides he's going to vote
for it, he could just be stuck in this
committee. And we don't know if Tom
Tills is going to vote for it until we
know what goes on with the DOJ probe on
J Pal.
>> In addition to that, we don't know what
Chairman Pal himself will do with
regards to his future.
>> Yeah. Whether he'll stay on as a
governor even after his term as Fed
chair is up. He said he will make that
determination at a later point. Unclear
what the characters are going into that.
Nonetheless, it's even less clear to
know what exactly the Fed is going to do
with the paniply of potential data as
well as events that are coming down the
pike. Kevin Worsh might want to hang
tight before he has to make the argument
to cut rates given the fact that there's
a lot of disscent on the committee and
some real pressure coming from the White
House.
>> So, we've got two things to do here. We
need to talk about the future of the
Federal Reserve. We need to start on the
economic data. PPI softer than expected.
Push that through the bond market. No
big moves here. The US 10year yield is
unchanged so far in the equity market
still positive by about a third quarter
a quarter of 1% higher on the S&P 500.
With us around the table, Stephanie Roth
of Wolf Research. Stephanie, good
morning. Good to see you. Good to see
you.
>> Your reaction to that data for the month
of March.
>> Yeah, so the details that matter for
core PCE is really what we're looking at
for airlines were up similar to to CPI
28. Physician services were kind of
light. Uh finance wasn't too strong. So
our tracking for core PCE for for March
should look, you know, in the 2% range.
So when we're thinking ahead, the
question though is are airline fairs
going to start increasing more
materially in the upcoming months? And
that's when it's going to become a a
bigger question. And I think that's what
the market kind of told you after CPI
is, yeah, okay, we get that the March
data were okay, but what happens in the
months after that? And that kind of fits
with our move that we we made somewhat
recently, pushing out our Fed cuts from
previously two cuts this year to now
one. And then we put we added one cut
into 27.
>> What's your base case for inflation?
What's the trajectory of things through
the summer and into the fall?
>> Base case is that you'll stay around 3%.
We think you'll actually end the year at
31, but that of course compares to the
Fed's 27. Uh our expectation is the
Fed's ultimately going to have to revise
that up, which then makes it a little
bit more difficult for the Fed to be
cutting in the next couple months.
>> That said, doesn't the fact that you're
getting less inflationary pressure
heading into this period a positive with
respect to the Fed's ability to cut
rates? I mean, doesn't it sort of take
off the table the idea that inflation
was heating up in a dramatic way that
would force a lot of these producers to
raise prices for consumers?
>> It's certainly a positive sign, but then
again, your February core PC was.37. So,
you you know, you're kind of starting at
an okay place. Not amazing. and core
inflation year-over-year is still, you
know, around 3%. So, I would say it's an
okay spot. It's not as if you were
starting from a very low inflationary
backdrop and now you're going to have
just some a little bit of upward
pressure in the next couple of months.
What data actually makes sense to look
at right now? Because it seems like the
market kind of looked past this is
looking past other factors that have
coming down the pike. It seems like uh
old data not relevant, not necessarily
going to track. What are you waiting for
that will give you a sign of whether we
really are in an inflationary kind of
upswing or not?
>> Um, it's going to be the realized
inflation data. You know, today is, you
know, another indication, but we
probably need to see April and May to
get a sense of whether you're really
seeing the pass through in terms of
airfares. I think that's probably the
the cleanest component that feeds into
core inflation that is directly tied to
the energy shock. So, if we don't see
stronger core uh airline fairs in the
next couple of months, I think might
feel better about the the the the pass
through. Of course, then that tells you
maybe there's a problem for airlines to
be able to pass through those costs, but
that tells you the inflationary backdrop
might certainly looks different than
2022.
>> Need to talk about the future of the
Federal Reserve as well. Kevin Walsh
making an appearance on the JP Morgan
call with Jamie Diamond. Not literally,
but his name was mentioned. Danny Burer
is tracking that. Danny joins us now.
Hey, Danny.
>> Hey, John. I have to say it was
extremely brief Jamie Diamond's comments
around this. Basically, a journalist
asked, uh, Mr. Diamond, how do you feel
about delays to the nomination of of
Kevin Worsh? I have to say this question
was asked right before Punch Bowl
reporting the impending uh uh uh maybe
process coming forward and Jamie Diamond
said simply Kevin I guess they're on a
firstname basis Kevin is a great
candidate the sooner the better and then
he ended it there he also goes on to
talk a lot about a economic uh
confidence he has despite the war and
despite uh some of the uncertainty going
forward but a very confident Jamie
Diamond on the economy and basically
just saying yep Kevin Worsh he'd be
great and the sooner the Danny Burgerer
with the latest. Danny, thank you.
Looking forward to the program alongside
Matt Miller kicking off in about 20
minutes time. It makes the question
around Chairman Pal's future, I think,
all the more important. I've raised this
question over the last month or so since
the last meeting with the chairman. When
he refused to say that he would leave
even if the investigations went away and
even if we had a new chair appointed, he
wouldn't rule out staying on as a
governor of the board. He seems to be
worried about central bank independence,
which is curious because so many
establishment figures back Kevin Walsh
to lead this Federal Reserve.
>> There's some speculation that Fed Chair
Jay Powell was trying to take back a
little bit of control or at least push
back from what the White House is doing.
Whether he will come clear with respect
to with what he's going to do if Kevin
Worsh is nominated remains to be seen.
Right now, markets have been incredibly
sanguin about the future of the Fed.
It's sort of a parlor game for us and
for analysts to talk about what this
could look like and the lack of
certainty. But the conviction in markets
that this Fed will anchor inflation, I
can't get over that. The fact that that
has persisted even with all of this
drama, even with the questions of the
politicization of the Federal Reserve is
what I keep coming back to. So, I agree
with you. I think that there are some
real questions here. The market
implications though, I'm not seeing it,
which I think is interesting. What was
so interesting about when Jay Powell did
that at the podium was that he wasn't
actually even asked about that question
specifically. It was third on his list.
He didn't even need to go there, but
felt the need to say that as almost to
the White House, I still hold this card.
Remember, he is still being investigated
in the Federal Reserve by the DOJ. And I
think that was a reminder to the White
House. I could still make this
complicated.
>> An update from Punch Bowl News. I
mentioned it earlier. If you're just
joining us, this on Kevin Walsh's
confirmation hearing for Federal Reserve
chair will be next Tuesday, April 21.
That according to sources with knowledge
of the plans. That's according to their
reporting. The Senate Banking Committee
is planning to notice the hearing later
on today with just a month or so left of
Chairman Pal's term. Stephanie,
inflation expectations. Bank of America
had this note this morning and I thought
the headline was catchy that tankers are
anchored and inflation expectations are
too. It's a curious moment, isn't it?
That inflation expectations have been so
well anchored. What's behind that?
>> Yeah, I mean, I think it's a combination
of an expectation that it's not just
about one person on on the FOMC and they
have proven that they are
focused on keeping inflation anchored
and it's been an FOMC over the past
couple of years that has been very
willing to hike rates in the face of the
elevated inflation. And it's not just up
to one person's view. Um, and what we've
seen so far is a an energy shock that
ultimately could could hurt demand. It's
it's different from where we were in
2022 when inflation expectations started
to show signs of potentially becoming
unanchored because today the economy is
not the same as it was back then and
payrolls were running at 600,000. Today
they're call it 5060. Unemployment rate
was low and headed lower. Now it's up
with, you know, some upward pressure
from AI. It's just a very different
economic environment. And I genuinely
believe if we were to see an oil shock
that's more significant than this, we
would start to see demand destruction
and that the Fed will ultimately be
easing as opposed to having to hike.
>> Based on this reporting, this hearing
will take place a week today. What is
the argument that Kevin Walsh can make
for lowering interest rates at the
Federal Reserve? Given everything you've
just said, what do you think the
argument will be that he'll present? I
think it's going to be all about
productivity and AI and a backdrop where
AI is disinflationary and ultimately
that will mean neutral rates are lower
in the medium term. And that was the
that was the view that the market had
held before the Iran shock really hit.
And it's a it's a it's a it's his sort
of best argument especially in the face
of where inflation is today, where the
economy is, uh, and you know the the
sort of the potential direction of
travel. If you do really have a strong
productivity cycle, you don't usually
have inflation problems at the same
time.
>> It's incredible how little expectations
for earnings in this economy have
changed over the last 6 weeks given this
major shock we've seen in the Middle
East,
>> even from some of the most exposed
sectors and what you're hearing is
maintaining even on the margins
upgrading. Again, how much does this go
back to how much momentum there actually
was in the US economy ahead of this war
in Iran and how the upside was the
potential surprise? Now we're sort of
getting back to the expectations maybe
at the start of the year.
>> Stephanie, good to see you. Thanks for
being here. Stephanie Rother of Wolf
Research. Equities still positive by
0.3% on the S&P. With an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief, Yhara has more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. [music] Recapping the data we
just got. Producer prices rising 5% in
March. It's less than the 1.1% that was
estimated, but follows a 7% rise in
February. Companies are navigating a
surge in energy costs tied to the Iran
war, stripping out food and energy
producer prices rising just onetenth of
a percent in the month. Iran is
considering pausing shipments through
the straight of Hormuz to avoid testing
a US blockade. Sources telling us here
at Bloomberg that Iran could be aiming
to avoid an immediate escalation and
derailing peace [music] talks. The US
and Iran are reportedly sorting out
logist logistics for a second
face-to-face meeting. And Kevin Worsh's
confirmation hearing to be the next Fed
chair is reportedly scheduled for next
Tuesday. Worsh clearing a key hurdle.
Senator Tim Scott saying Senator Tom
Tillis is now planning to support Worsh.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. Thank you for the
update. Up next on the program, we'll
catch up with Eric Freriedman of
Northern Trust [music] Wealth Management
with stocks trading very close to record
highs. Plus, Jihara is back with your
morning movers. Amazon shares rising in
the pre-market on its latest
acquisition. That story up next.
For every 1 day of service disruption,
it takes about 3 days to catch up. Now
we're looking at about 4 and 1/2 months
with respect to the straight overuse to
get all these ships container tanker
bulk back into normal rotations. Once
the straight is open, there is a lot of
work to do [music] in this supply chain.
>> Real physical disruption. This market's
looking through it. That was the port of
Los Angeles executive director Gene
Soka. This market, the gains continue up
a quarter of 1% on the S&P 500. The run
continues on the NASDAQ 9day winning
streak on the NASDAQ 100, the longest
since September 25. You make it day 10,
[music] the longest since November 2021.
The NASDAQ this morning up by.5%. Let's
get you some morning movers. Yahira has
more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. one of the biggest airline
deals ever could be on the table. We're
reporting that United CEO Scott Kirby
has floated the idea of a potential
merger with American that he's talked to
[music] senior government officials
about this. So, you are seeing American
up 8.5% in the pre-market even though
any deal would of [music] course face
intense antitrust scrutiny. And it's
official Amazon agreeing to buy the
satellite firm Global Star in an 11.6 $6
[music] billion deal as it tries to
compete with SpaceX and its massive
Starlink network. So, you are seeing
shares of Global Star up 10 uh up 11% in
the pre-market. The deal is expected to
close [music] next year. And we end on
Lucid Motors. those shares uh up nearly
5% in the pre-market as a struggling EV
maker tries to reset uh naming a new CEO
and locking in $750 million from its
biggest [music] backers Uber and Saudi
Arabia's public investment fund. John
>> Yara, thank you. Great work this [music]
morning as always. Appreciate it. As we
count you down to the up and about some
things to look out for through the next
24, 48 hours or so. Coming up tomorrow,
results from Bank of America and Morgan
Stanley, plus the Fed's Beige Book.
Another read on how they're thinking
about the situation in the global
economy on Thursday. Another round of
jobless claims and more earnings for
you. Netflix results just around the
corner. The run we've seen in some of
these tech [music] names, phenomenal
9-day winning streak on the NASDAQ.
We're looking at day 10. Eric Freriedman
of Northern Trust writing the following.
[music] We do not expect the Iran
conflict to severely impact the
corporate profit cycle or credit
markets. We remain overweight risk
assets relative to bonds. Eric joins us
now for more. Eric, welcome to the
program. I have lost count of how many
times I've asked this question of an
equity market bull. What is anchoring
that view given the turbulence we're
seeing play out in the Middle East?
>> I think the biggest things, Jonathan,
are twofold. Number one, we still think
consumers will remain resilient. Not
necessarily lower income consumers, but
middle inome as well as upper income
consumers. Those have really been
resilient. We think that continues. Also
think that capex is still a variable
that will be be durable as well. So
those are the two variables that we're
probably domestically most bullish
about. But I would say part of our
opinion has changed with respect to the
non US equity picture. We came into the
year a little more excited about things
like Japanese reflation, European
deficit spending. Those may get somewhat
crowded out by how challenged those
regions in particular will be to the
energy issue. So I think if anything,
Jonathan, we're still bullish. Maybe a
little more of a relative value
opportunity set we're seeing right now.
But again, we think capex as well as
consumer durability in the US likely
remains the case.
>> Eric, can you just stay on that? The
vulnerability of what's happening
internationally because the key trades
for many at the start of the year, Japan
took off, that continued. South Korea
just exploded higher. Are those stories
under threat even though they have some
connection particularly the Cosby and
South Korea with the developments in
tech in the US?
>> Yeah, I think that's well put Jonathan.
If you look particularly at the issues
with, for example, helium and the
various parts of the of the hydrocarbon
cycle that play into technology, those
aren't going away. In fact, those have
gotten worse. And so, you know, part of
the issue is is will there be some sort
of redirection of both trade as well as
will there be some new winners within
the technology space that are maybe not
as affected within uh some of those
shortages. So again, we have to respect
that the direction of travel is a bit
different with respect to both
technology as well as what may be
playing out across some parts of the
consumer cycle in particularly in
Europe. Uh that that's a significant
issue that may be different.
>> Eric, from February 27th till today,
what's changed in your portfolio?
>> Yeah, the biggest things, Lisa, one is
that we've we've shrunk tracking error,
which is a long-winded way of saying
that, hey, when the world changes quite
a bit, we shrink our our exposures.
meeting we've we had a somewhat outside
view in terms of an overweight for our
tactical clients within non- US
equities. We've actually shrunk that.
We've retained our bias within real
assets. So, the biggest thing that we've
done is really shrunk that exposure with
respect to the non- US equity portion of
our portfolio and we've been more
emphasizing the real asset side. That's
been something that's been consistent
and we'll probably keep that on for some
time.
>> And now the fun starts where we actually
get earnings. We get to hear from
different companies. The banks have been
first and JP Morgan came out earlier
this morning on the call with analysts.
The CFO said consumer spending growth is
outpacing last year talking about how
engagement and pipelines remain healthy
looking forward talking about mergers
and acquisitions, IPOs, the like. How
much do you take a read from some of
these earnings in terms of the forward
look if you can put aside the conflict
to the Middle East to get optimistic
heading into the rest of 2026?
Lisa, it's critical in terms of what
we're seeing with respect to consumer
activity particularly. Do we see credit
change? And when I say credit change,
are we seeing an extension of again, we
saw personal savings dip a bit? We saw
personal income remain somewhat
flattish, but are people extending
credit in terms of financial services
providers and also are we seeing
consumers get a bit over their skis, if
you will, with respect to putting too
much on credit? Now, the data has been
somewhat noisy, but in general stable,
but that's somewhat backward data.
Again, most of the data we get from the
Fed is about two or three months old.
This is a great real-time indicator.
When Jeremy Barnum and others uh talk
about what they're seeing across their
portfolios and their loan books, that's
really important for our work. So,
making sure that we are seeing some
stability with respect to consumer
activity. Again, decent spending, but
that spending can't just all go on
credit because that credit of course has
to be performing as you and the team
have done a great job of reporting for
for the last couple months.
>> Eric, we spent so much time talking
about the Federal Reserve. Just how
relevant is the Federal Reserve to your
outlook?
>> I think the biggest shock, if you will,
Jonathan, to our glass half full
perspective would be an outsized move
higher in interest rates. That doesn't
seem to be something at least the front
of the curve. We're not as concerned
about that. We're more concerned about
what some of your other guests have
talked about in terms of, you know, what
happens with budget deficits, what
happens with the back end of the curve.
We're in year 19 of the 10-year Treasury
yield being below 5%. We've become
accustomed, if if anything, we become
incredibly desensitized to interest rate
volatility. So, the Fed with respect to
front of the curve, not really a big
concern for us. We're more concerned
about was there upside risk, if you
will, if if, for example, the
administration decides to get very
aggressive with progrowth policies that
the bond market rejects. That would be
more concerning to us than what the Fed
may have to offer on a, you know, next
couple of meetings basis.
>> Eric, it's good to see you. It's always
good to catch up, sir. Thank you. Eric
Friedman there of Northern Trust Wealth
Management on the Federal Reserve. The
front end of the curve there. Can see it
on the screen. 380 anchored around where
Fed funds is right now at about 377 380.
This is a feather that's not going to do
anything anytime soon as a market as
well priced for it at the moment at
least on a two-year yield. Looking at
the situation in middle in the Middle
East, just how is the blockade holding
up? Is it being tested? We were tracking
one particular ship. What's the latest?
>> Yeah, this was a US sanctioned tanker
linked to China and it seems that it has
made a U-turn. So, everyone was talking
about the fact that this is going to be
a huge test for the blockade. Does the
blockade allow this sanctioned Chinese
vessel through? And it looks like it's a
no. and it and it U-turned. Uh so not
being able to make that journey out of
the straight,
>> the potential for escalation avoided at
least for now. On top of what we've seen
over the last week, Bremo, the market
rally continues. You talked about it
earlier. This market's moved on very
quickly over the last week. The prospect
of more talks encouraging this market to
move on even quicker.
>> The fact that we had a blockade
announced on Sunday or Saturday and that
Sunday night people came in and I
thought, "Wow, it's going to be a blood
bath." No, not at all. Actually, we
ended the day higher yesterday. We're
really close to where we were. We
actually surpassed we took out all the
losses uh since the war began gives you
a sense of where people's minds are at
this morning. Just adding to that, the
fact that there are reports that Iran
doesn't want to escalate things. They're
going to avoid trying to even have any
ships U-turn to just avoid the conflict.
And the fact, okay, U-turning, but at
least there's nothing violent that's
happening as a result of it. So, people
are looking at this and saying next,
next earnings. Let's hear it.
>> Minds are firmly on the future, on the
summer. A touch of summer in the air in
New York City into the 80s later. spring
with a splash of summer, right? You
know,
>> I I'm I'm actually very angry about
this. I would like spring to be spring.
I don't want it to be 85 and humid, but
you're right. People are just looking to
>> I'll take the 85 and I know I know.
>> Yeah. And you're complaining about the
aircon. Interesting. Okay. Let's see how
comfortable you are. Let's make it 85
and humid in the studio and we'll see if
you're happy with that.
>> Oh, there's a happy medium. Doesn't need
to be 64.
>> Okay, we can continue having this back
and forth. Just a moment. I look forward
to it. All right. Coming up tomorrow. I
really don't. No. Dixon of Stere joins
us. David George of Bed. Phil Camperelli
of JP Morgan and Puja [music] Sriram of
Barclays from New York City this
morning. Thank you for choosing
Bloomberg TV. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.